                     NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD
                            445 12th St. SW, Suite 2500
                              Washington, DC 20024


 In the Matter of the Application of         53 NMB No. 30
                 the
                                             CASE NO. R-7690
 INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD                   (NMB File No. CR-7275)
OF TEAMSTERS, AIRLINE DIVISION
   and ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT                 FINDINGS UPON
    ATTENDANTS-CWA, AFL-CIO                  INVESTIGATION –
                                             SINGLE CARRIER
  alleging a representation dispute          DETERMINATION
  pursuant to Section 2, Ninth, of
      the Railway Labor Act, as              September 1, 2026
               amended

       involving employees of

REPUBLIC AIRWAYS, INC. / MESA
       AIRLINES, INC.



       This determination addresses the applications filed by the Association of
Flight Attendants-CWA, AFL-CIO (AFA-CWA) and the International Brotherhood
of Teamsters, Airline Division (IBT) (collectively the Organizations). The
Organizations ask the National Mediation Board (NMB or Board) to investigate
whether Republic Airways, Inc. (Republic) and Mesa Airlines, Inc. (Mesa)
(collectively the Carriers or Combined Carrier) are operating as a single
transportation system for the craft or class of Flight Attendants.

      The investigation establishes that Republic and Mesa constitute a single
transportation system.




                                       - 124 -

                                                               53 NMB No. 30


                        PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

       On April 20, 2026, pursuant to the NMB’s Merger Procedures and NMB
Representation Manual (Manual) Section 19.3, the Carriers notified the Board
that, in the fourth quarter of 2025, the parent holding companies of Mesa and
Republic entered into an Agreement, Plan of Conversion, and Plan of Merger
(Merger Agreement) under which the two parent companies combined into a
single entity, Republic Airways Holdings, Inc. The Flight Attendants are
represented by IBT at Republic under the Board’s certification in NMB Case No.
R-6225, and represented by AFA-CWA at Mesa under the Board’s certification in
NMB Case No. R-6499. See Republic Airlines, et al., 41 NMB 109, 118 (2014);
Mesa Airlines, 24 NMB 217 (1997); Mesa Airlines, 31 NMB 244 (2004)
(transferring AFA’s certification to represent Flight Attendants at Mesa Airlines
to AFA-CWA).

      On April 29, 2026, IBT and AFA-CWA filed applications and a position
statement alleging a representation dispute involving the craft or class of Flight
Attendants at the Combined Carrier. AFA-CWA notes that it is not acting as an
Intervenor in this case and agrees that its certification should be transferred to
the IBT. The Board assigned Eileen M. Hennessey to investigate and requested
that the Carriers provide information regarding their operations. On May 29,
2026, the Carriers submitted the requested information and a position
statement.

                                     ISSUE


     Are Republic and Mesa operating as a single transportation system? If so,
what are the representation consequences?

                                CONTENTIONS


      The Organizations and the Combined Carrier take the position that Mesa
and Republic are a single transportation system for purposes of representation
and collective bargaining for the Flight Attendants craft or class.

                              FINDINGS OF LAW


      Determination of the issues in this case is governed by the Railway Labor
Act (RLA or Act), as amended, 45 U.S.C. § 151, et seq. Accordingly, the Board
finds as follows:



                                     - 125 -

                                                               53 NMB No. 30


                                         I.

         Republic and Mesa are common carriers as defined in 45 U.S.C. § 181,
First.

                                        II.

      IBT and AFA-CWA are labor organizations and/or representatives as
defined in 45 USC § 151, Sixth, and § 152, Ninth.

                                        III.

       45 U.S.C. § 152, Fourth, gives employees subject to its provisions, “the
right to organize and bargain collectively through representatives of their own
choosing. The majority of any craft or class of employees shall have the right to
determine who shall be the representative of the craft or class for purposes of
this chapter.”

                                        IV.

      45 U.S.C. § 152, Ninth, provides that the Board has the duty to investigate
representation disputes and to designate who may participate as eligible voters
in the event an election is required. In determining the choice of the majority of
employees, the Board is “authorized to take a secret ballot of the employees
involved or to utilize any other appropriate method of ascertaining the names of
their duly designated and authorized representatives . . . by the employees
without interference, influence, or coercion exercised by the carrier.”


                             STATEMENT OF FACTS

                                   Background
      On April 4, 2025, the parent holding companies of Republic and Mesa
entered into the Merger Agreement under which the parent companies combined
to form Republic Airways Holdings, Inc. (RAH) with the objective of creating the
Combined Carrier (consisting of pre-merger Republic and pre-merger Mesa). The
merger was completed on November 25, 2025.

      As noted above, IBT is the collective bargaining representative of the Flight
Attendants at pre-merger Republic and AFA-CWA represents the Flight
Attendants at pre-merger Mesa. According to the Combined Carrier, as of May
29, 2026, the total number of employees covered by the applications was 2,962.
Mesa employs 625 Flight Attendants and Republic employs 2,337 Flight

                                      - 126 -

                                                              53 NMB No. 30


Attendants.

                         Common or Overlapping Ownership

      Following the merger, Republic and Mesa are now wholly-owned
subsidiaries of RAH. Common shares of RAH are publicly traded on NASDAQ
under the ticker symbol “RJET.” Prior to the merger, Mesa Air Group, Inc.,
Mesa’s parent, was publicly traded under the ticker symbol “MESA,” which
converted to “RJET” upon consummation of the merger.

      RAH made its first filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission as
the parent of both carriers on December 1, 2025. Consolidated reporting began
on March 19, 2026, with the filing of RAH’s Form 10-K. RAH issued its first
earnings release and investor update for the Combined Carrier on March 4,
2026, describing the merger. A second earnings release and investor update was
issued on April 29, 2026.

        Combined or Common Management, Corporate Officers, and Board of
                              Directors

      RAH is led by a Board of Directors that also serves as the Board of
Directors for Republic and Mesa. The Board is composed of the five incumbent
Directors from RAH and one Director from Mesa’s former Board of Directors.

      The Carriers have combined their executive leadership and management
teams to the extent allowed by Federal Aviation Regulations. Mesa executive
leadership positions have been eliminated and other management positions have
been consolidated. The executive leadership of Republic has been appointed to
serve in their same leadership positions at Mesa. David Grizzle retired as Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) on June 15, 2026 but remains as Chairman of the Board.
Matt Koscal was initially appointed as Mesa’s President and Chief Commercial
Officer and became its President and CEO upon Grizzle’s retirement. Joe Allman
became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on June 15, 2026.
Paul Kinstedt became Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer on
June 15, 2026. Chad Pulley, serves as Mesa’s Senior Vice President, General
Counsel and Corporate Secretary.

       Republic executives have assumed the leadership of their respective
counterparts at Mesa. Elizabeth Mottley serves as Vice President, Human
Resources at the Combined Carrier. In addition, the following executives perform
their respective roles for both Republic and Mesa: Tonya Gilbert, Vice President,
Strategic Operations; Scott Hornback, Vice President, Finance and Accounting;
Drew Skaff, Vice President, Supply Chain; Steve Hood, Vice President, Properties
& Facilities; Matt Belanger, Vice President, Information Technology and Chief
Information Officer; and Thomas Duffy, Vice President, Maintenance and
Engineering.

                                     - 127 -

                                                                 53 NMB No. 30


      Mesa Associates in the Finance, Legal, Supply Chain, Information
Technology, Crew Planning, Training Logistics, Strategic Operations, Crew
Qualifications, and Human Resources departments, as well as some Airport
Operations Associates, have been transferred to Republic. They have been issued
Republic badges and have been assigned identification numbers in Republic’s
system. Some Associates will remain employed by and carry the badge of their
respective carrier until a single operating certificate (SOC) is issued, such as Vice
President of Flight Operations, Director of Maintenance, Chief Pilot, Vice
President of Safety, Designated Employer Representative.

       The Combined Carrier has also established an Integration Management
Office (IMO) led by Matt Belanger, Tonya Gilbert, Thomas Duffy, Elizabeth
Mottley, Tara Kamm, and Teresa Griffin. The IMO reports directly to the
executive leadership team of the Combined Carrier. The IMO has completed a
specific integration plan, establishing the foundation for integration planning.

      When the merger is completed, the Combined Carrier’s headquarters will
be located in Carmel, Indiana at pre-merger Republic’s headquarters. Mesa’s
Corporate and System Operations Control departments have already been
relocated to Republic’s Carmel, Indiana headquarters.

                       Labor Protections and Interim Agreements

       Republic, Mesa, IBT, and AFA-CWA entered into a Merger Transition
Agreement (MTA) on October 19, 2025. The MTA set forth a process for reaching
a joint collective bargaining agreement (JCBA) and for Seniority List Integration.
The parties reached agreement on the JCBA on December 11, 2025, and the
JCBA was ratified on January 22, 2026 with an amendable date of October 12,
2027.

       The parties agreed to use Republic’s 2022-2027 Flight Attendant collective
bargaining agreement as the foundation for the JCBA. While many of the articles
of the JCBA, such as compensation, per diem rates, uniforms, and the commuter
policy, have been implemented at Mesa, further JCBA implementation is
ongoing. Because the Republic agreement served as the foundation of the JCBA,
most JCBA provisions are in place there; however, instructor and pay changes
were implemented at Republic immediately after ratification. A new schedule
adjustment period that is already in effect at Mesa was implemented at Republic
in August 2026 and boarding pay changes were effective July 22, 2026.

        The MTA provided that the IBT and AFA-CWA would merge the seniority
lists, and that the single seniority list would be provided to the Combined Carrier
no later than 30 days after ratification of the JCBA. The IBT and AFA-CWA
presented an Integrated Seniority List on April 21, 2026.

    The IBT also represents Republic’s Pilots and Mechanics and Related
Employees. See Republic Airlines, et al., 38 NMB 245 (2011), Republic Airways,
                                       - 128 -

                                                                53 NMB No. 30


53 NMB 109 (2026). On March 20, 2026, the Board issued a decision in a case
involving IBT’s application to represent Republic’s Mechanics and Related
Employees. Republic Airways, 53 NMB 64 (2026). At that time, Republic
conceded that it and Mesa were not yet operating as a single transportation
system. Id. at 67. When IBT’s application was filed, there had been no JCBAs
reached for the Combined Carrier’s Pilots or Flight Attendants and it appears
that significant progress in that area has occurred since then.

                     Centralized Labor and Personnel Operations

      The labor relations function at the Combined Carrier is managed jointly
and is led by Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Chad Pulley, who
serves as the lead for all crafts and classes at both carriers. Teresa Griffin,
Associate General Counsel, is responsible for the current implementation of the
JCBA between the Carriers and the Flight Attendants and overseeing the labor
integration of both Carriers. Elizabeth Murphy, Associate General Counsel, and
Director of Labor, is responsible for labor relations for Pilots, Flight Attendants,
and Dispatchers at Republic.

             Common Personnel Policies and Employee Communications

       Human Resources management for the Carriers has been combined and
the Combined Carrier is developing and implementing a single set of personnel
policies that will govern all employees. The combined Whistleblower, Social
Media, Securities Trading, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and Drug and
Alcohol Policies have been implemented. A common performance management
process for non-represented employees is under development.

      All locations of the Combined Carrier held joint merger-day celebrations,
town halls, and other events. The Combined Carrier continues to host town hall
events with combined leadership. The Combined Carrier also has developed and
implemented management training about the merger transition to all Combined
Carrier leaders.

                      Combined Schedules and/or Routes

       Republic and Mesa are regional air carriers performing flying for mainline
partner airlines. They do not control routes or pricing, and do not market or sell
tickets to passengers.

                                 Standardized Uniforms

      Mesa Flight Attendants were scheduled to receive Republic Flight
Attendant uniforms beginning in July 2026. The Combined Carrier will phase
out distribution of new Mesa Flight Attendant uniforms by the end of 2026.



                                      - 129 -

                                                              53 NMB No. 30


                   Common Marketing, Markings or Insignia

      As regional carriers, the Carriers do not have consumer branding or
aircraft livery. Unlike mainline airlines, Republic and Mesa do not have airline
lounges or passenger loyalty programs

      The Combined Carrier’s messaging regarding the merger and integration
has been predominantly industry-facing and internal rather than public-facing.
Republic and Mesa did publish several press releases related to the merger,
including a press release at the time the merger was announced on April 7, 2025
and another when it was completed on November 25, 2025. Republic’s November
25, 2025, press release noted, “[B]ringing Republic and Mesa together . . . makes
us a stronger and more capable partner for our customers, will create new job
and career opportunities for our people, and offers a compelling investment
opportunity in an essential industry.”

      In a March 3, 2026 press release announcing Republic’s “Q4 and Full Year
2025 Financial Results,” the carrier stated that the merger was completed as of
November 25, 2025, “with Mesa Air Group, Inc. continuing as the surviving
corporation . . . renamed [as] Republic Airways Holding Inc.” This press release
also contained a message from the Republic CEO and Chairman of the Board
welcoming “the over 1,600 new associates from Mesa to the Republic family.”

      RAH has created common investor relations, media, and customer
websites. Rjet.com and investor.rjet.com were launched on November 25, 2025.
Mesa’s website and social media announce the merger with Republic.

                        Integrated Essential Operations

       Complete operational integration of all functions, including flight
operations, will occur after the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issues a
SOC to the Combined Carrier. The Combined Carrier states that this is expected
to take place no later than June 2028. In addition, the Integration Management
Office is responsible for preparing for the SOC, consolidating and staffing back-
office teams, and supporting operational stability across both carriers while the
SOC is pending.

      In the interim, Republic and Mesa have implemented a plan to integrate
operations which includes developing and submitting an FAA Transition Plan,
consolidating airport locations, system and schedule planning and revenue
management, combining Flight Operations Manuals, and developing emergency
response procedures

      The Combined Carrier submitted a Transition Plan to the FAA on
December 16, 2025 with five to six revision cycles. The Combined Carrier,
recently started the execution of the first revision cycle with the Combined
Carrier’s receipt of its FAA Operations Specification A502. The A502 is a
                                     - 130 -

                                                               53 NMB No. 30


regulatory document issued to air carriers undergoing corporate consolidation
that outlines the FAA approved transition plan, allowing merging airlines to
operate under common ownership while harmonizing processes toward a SOC.

      System planning, schedule planning, and revenue management have been
consolidated under a common executive leadership team. The Carriers state that
Republic’s procedures and Flight Operations Manuals will be used for the
Combined Carrier. To ensure that both Carriers are available to provide
assistance to each other in the event of an emergency, the Carriers have
developed Emergency Response Procedures.

      As discussed above, Republic and Mesa, as regional carriers, do not have
gates, ticket counters, operations offices, or other airport facilities that would
require consolidation at stations. Some duplicative airport facilities have been
combined, such as a shared crew room at Washington Dulles International
Airport.

                                  DISCUSSION


                             The Board’s Authority

        The Board is authorized under 45 U.S.C. § 152, Ninth to investigate
disputes arising among a carrier’s employees over representation and to certify
the duly authorized representative of such employees. The Board has exclusive
jurisdiction over representation questions under the RLA. See General Comm. of
Adjustment v. Missouri-Kansas-Texas R.R., 320 U.S. 323 (1943); Switchmen's
Union of N. Am. v. NMB, 320 U.S. 297 (1943). In ALPA v. Texas International
Airlines, 656 F.2d 16, 22 (2d Cir. 1981), the court stated, “the NMB is empowered
to . . . decide representation disputes arising out of corporate restructurings.”

                         Single Transportation System

       Manual Section 19.4 provides that: “Any organization or individual may
file an application, supported by evidence of representation or a showing of
interest . . . seeking a determination whether a single system of transportation
exists.”

       In Trans World Airlines/Ozark Airlines, the Board cited the following
indicia of a single transportation system:

      [W]hether a combined schedule is published; how the carrier
      advertises its services; whether reservation systems are combined;
      whether tickets are issued on one carrier’s stock; if signs, logos and
      other publicly visible indicia have been changed to indicate only one
      carrier’s existence; whether personnel with public contact were held
                                     - 131 -

                                                              53 NMB No. 30


      out as employees of one carrier; and whether the process of
      repainting planes and other equipment, to eliminate indications of
      separate existence, has been progressed.

             Other factors investigated by the Board seek to determine if
      the carriers have combined their operations from a managerial and
      labor relations perspective. Here, the Board investigates whether
      labor relations and personnel functions are handled by one carrier;
      whether there are a common management, common corporate
      officers and interlocking Boards of Directors; whether there is a
      combined workforce; and whether separate identities are
      maintained for corporate and other purposes.

14 NMB 218, 236 (1987).

      The Board finds a single transportation system only when there is
substantial integration of operations, financial control, and labor and personnel
functions. See, e.g., Alaska Airlines/Hawaiian Airlines, 52 NMB 195 (2025);
Alaska Airlines/Virgin America, 44 NMB 25 (2017); Southwest Airlines/AirTran
Airways, 43 NMB 120 (2016); Delta Air Lines/Northwest Airlines, 36 NMB 36
(2009). Further, the Board has noted that a substantial degree of overlapping
ownership, senior management, and boards of directors is critical to finding a
single transportation system. See Precision Valley Aviation/Valley Flying Serv.,
20 NMB 619 (1993). The Board’s criteria for substantial integration of operations
do not require total integration of operations. See, e.g., American Airlines/US
Airways, 41 NMB 174 (2014); Atlantic Southeast Airlines/ExpressJet Airlines, 38
NMB 224 (2011); US Airways/America West Airlines, 33 NMB 49 (2006).

      Because Mesa and Republic are regional airlines operating under
agreements with mainline partners, some of the common indicia of a single
transportation system, specifically, those dealing with how the Carriers are held
out to the public, are not present here. Nonetheless, the Board finds that the
integration of the carriers is substantial and ongoing since the merger’s
completion in the fourth quarter of 2025.

       The Carriers are commonly owned by RAH, with a single board of directors
that is identical for the parent corporation and each of the subsidiary carriers.
Pre-merger Republic’s headquarters serves as the headquarters for the
Combined Carrier. Except as required until the FAA issues a SOC, the Carriers
have common executive management. The Combined Carrier’s finances are
under the control of a single Chief Financial Officer and are reported on a
consolidated basis. Labor Relations are the responsibility of a single executive.

     The IBT and AFA-CWA have ratified a JCBA and significant articles have
been implemented. An integrated Flight Attendant Seniority List has been

                                     - 132 -

                                                               53 NMB No. 30


presented. The Combined Carrier is working toward common personnel policies
under the direction of a single Vice President for Human Resources. The FAA has
approved the Transition Plan submitted to it by the Combined Carrier and an
SOC is expected within 18 to 24 months. The Carriers have issued
communications notifying the public that Mesa and Republic are merging into a
single airline with fully integrated operations. In press releases issued since the
merger closed, the Combined Carrier has highlighted its joint operations and
referred to pre-merger Mesa employees as members of “the Republic family.” The
Combined Carrier operates common customer and investor relations websites.
Mesa Flight Attendants have begun transitioning to Republic uniforms and the
issuance of Mesa Flight Attendant uniforms will be phased out by the end of
2026.

      Based upon the application of the principles to the facts established by the
investigation, the Board finds that Republic and Mesa are a single transportation
system for representation purposes for the craft or class of Flight Attendants.

                                  CONCLUSION

      The Board finds that Republic and Mesa are operating as a single
transportation system for representation purposes under the RLA. Accordingly,
the applications in File No. CR-7275 are converted to NMB Case No. R-7690.
Pursuant to Manual Section 19.6, the investigation will proceed to address the
representation of the craft or class of Flight Attendants. Any Intervenor has 30
days from the date of this determination to file an application supported by a
showing of interest of at least 50% of the single transportation system in
accordance with Manual Sections 19.601. The participants are reminded that
under Manual Section 19.7, existing certifications remain in effect until the
Board issues a new certification or dismissal.


      By direction of the NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD.




                                       Maria-Kate Dowling
                                       General Counsel




                                      - 133 -

