52877                        SERVICE DATE – JANUARY 16, 2026
EB

                           SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD

                                            DECISION

                                      Docket No. FD 36873 1

    UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION AND UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
                             —CONTROL—
        NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND NORFOLK SOUTHERN
                          RAILWAY COMPANY

        Digest: 2 In this decision, the Board finds that the application seeking approval for Union
        Pacific Corporation to acquire control of Norfolk Southern Corporation, and through that
        entity Norfolk Southern Railway Company and its rail subsidiaries, is incomplete. In
        accordance with the statute, the Board therefore must reject the application (and two
        related applications) and does so without prejudice to refiling. Applicants may submit
        revised applications in this docket, which would commence a new review by the Board
        for completeness. Applicants shall submit a letter in the docket by February 17, 2026,
        indicating if and when they anticipate refiling.

                                          Decision No. 9

                                    Decided: January 16, 2026

        On December 19, 2025, Union Pacific Corporation (UPC), Union Pacific Railroad
Company (UP), Norfolk Southern Corporation (NSC), and Norfolk Southern Railway Company
(NS) (collectively, Applicants) filed an application (the Application) seeking Board approval for
(1) the acquisition of control by UPC of NSC, and through NSC of NS and NS’s rail carrier
subsidiaries, and (2) the resulting common control by UPC of UP and NS and the consolidation
of the rail operations of UP and NS. This proposal is referred to as the Transaction.

        As discussed below, the Application is incomplete because it does not contain certain
information required by the Board’s regulations. Specifically, the Application is incomplete
because its impact analyses required by 49 C.F.R. § 1180.7(b) do not contain market share
projections for the entity to be created by the Transaction that are consistent with the claims
elsewhere in the Application that the new entity would experience growth by diverting traffic

        1
        This decision embraces the following dockets: Union Pacific Corp.—Control—Peoria
& Pekin Union Railway, Docket No. FD 36873 (Sub-No. 1); and Union Pacific Corp.—
Control—Terminal Railroad Ass’n of St. Louis, Docket No. FD 36873 (Sub-No. 2).
        2
        The digest constitutes no part of the decision of the Board but has been prepared for the
convenience of the reader. It may not be cited to or relied upon as precedent. See Pol’y
Statement on Plain Language Digs. in Decisions, EP 696 (STB served Sept. 2, 2010).

                                                                        Docket No. FD 36873 et al.


from trucks and other rail carriers. The Application is also incomplete because it does not
contain the entire merger agreement required by 49 C.F.R. § 1180.6(a)(7)(ii), including certain
documents that are expressly defined to be part of the merger agreement and that define
Applicants’ obligations under it. Given the Board’s finding that these deficiencies render the
Application incomplete, the Board must reject the Application. 49 U.S.C. § 11325(a) (“if the
application is incomplete, the Board shall reject it”); see also 49 C.F.R. § 1180.4(c)(7)(ii) (“The
Board shall reject an incomplete application by serving a decision no later than 30 days after the
application is filed with the Board.”).

        Included with the Application are two related applications for Applicants’ acquisitions of
control of the Peoria and Pekin Union Railway Company (PPU) in Docket No. FD 36873 (Sub-
No. 1) and the Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis (TRRA) in Docket No. FD 36873
(Sub-No. 2). As described in more detail below, the TRRA control application describes that
transaction as a “minor” transaction under the Board’s regulations, but the Board concludes that
that proposed transaction should be classified as a “significant” transaction. For that reason, that
application is incomplete and will be rejected. Moreover, because the primary Application is
being rejected and the related PPU acquisition of control is “purely incidental” to the primary
Transaction, (Appl. 2-1046), that related application will be rejected as well.
