                                              FAI-F0143E4-1

             UNITED STATES
         DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION

        REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

                 Underground
                   (Coal)

   Powered Haulage Accident Fatality Report
                April 3, 2026

              Ohio County Mine
       Ohio County Coal Resources, Inc.
     Dallas, Marshall County, West Virginia
               ID No. 46-01436

             Accident Investigators

              Joedy Gutta, P.E.
       Mine Safety and Health Specialist

                  Allan Jack
       Mine Safety and Health Specialist




              Originating Office
     Mine Safety and Health Administration
             Morgantown District
                604 Cheat Road
           Morgantown, WV 26508
       Carlos Mosley, District Manager
                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

OVERVIEW                                                        3

GENERAL INFORMATION                                             3

DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCIDENT                                     4

INVESTIGATION OF THE ACCIDENT                                   6

DISCUSSION                                                      6

   Location of the Accident                                     6

   Equipment Involved                                           6

   Maintenance and Repairs in Active Tram Roadway Procedures    7

   Examinations                                                 7

   Training and Experience                                      7

ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS                                             7

CONCLUSION                                                      9

ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS                                            10

APPENDIX A – Map of the Accident Location                      11

APPENDIX B – Persons Participating in the Investigation        12




                                             ii
                                          OVERVIEW

On April 3, 2026, at 10:21 a.m., Darin Reece, a 36-year-old section supervisor with 18 years of
mining experience, died after he was struck by a longwall shield and pinned against a scoop.

The accident occurred because the mine operator did not develop written policies and procedures
addressing repairs to equipment.

                                  GENERAL INFORMATION

Ohio County Coal Resources, Inc. owns and operates the Ohio County Mine, an underground
bituminous coal mine located in Dallas, Marshall County, West Virginia. The Ohio County Mine
employs 462 miners, and operates three 8-hour production shifts daily. The mine extracts coal
from the Pittsburgh No. 8 coal seam with three continuous mining machine units and one
longwall unit. The average mining height is 96 inches. Belt conveyors are used to transport the
coal from the mining units to the surface.




                                                3
The principal management officials at Ohio County Mine at the time of the accident were:

       Ray Wilhelm                                                        General Manager
       David Cutlip                                                        Superintendent
       Drew Dally                                                          Superintendent
       Matthew Cunningham                                                  Safety Director

The Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) completed the last regular safety and
health inspection at this mine on March 31, 2026. A regular safety and health inspection was
ongoing at the time of the accident; however, no MSHA personnel were on site at the time of the
accident. The 2025 non-fatal days lost incident rate for Ohio County Mine was 5.86, compared to
the national average of 3.89 for mines of this type.

                              DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCIDENT

Darin Reece, section supervisor, entered the mine at the Golden Ridge Portal with the day shift
crew at approximately 8:00 a.m. He traveled with Bryan Rankin, longwall support supervisor, on
a golf cart toward the 3 Left section. The golf cart broke down, and Reece got into a personnel
carrier with a crew traveling to the 3 Left section. Based on tracking information, Reece arrived
on the section at 9:08 a.m.

Reece provided work assignments to Garrett Tingley, longwall utility; Justin Wade, continuous
mining machine operator; and Allan Bonamo, general inside laborer. Wade was assigned to
operate a scoop to unload the longwall shields that were transported to the 3 Left section by
locomotives. Wade positioned the longwall shields where they could be picked up and taken to
the longwall setup face. Tingley and Bonamo were each assigned to operate a scoop to transport
and position the shields along the longwall setup face.

Tingley conducted a preoperational check on the No. 1054 scoop, which was already loaded with
a shield from the midnight shift. He then trammed to the setup face to set the shield into place.
Wade conducted a preoperational check on the No. 555 scoop, which was already loaded with a
shield from the midnight shift. Wade unloaded the shield in the No. 2-1 crosscut and trammed to
the track entry to unload and stage shields arriving on the 3 Left section.

Bonamo conducted a preoperational check on the No. 2007 scoop and determined the winch rope
needed to be repaired. Reece repaired the No. 2007 scoop’s winch rope by cutting out a bad
section of rope and reweaving the end through the winch rope hook. Bonamo trammed to the
shield that was left by Wade in the No. 2-1 crosscut. Reece walked into the No. 2-1 crosscut to
assist with loading the shield. While attempting to load the shield onto the front of the scoop, the
restraining bolt on the winch reel broke. Reece positioned himself on the scoop to begin making
repairs on the winch (Appendix A).

Tingley completed setting the shield on the setup face and trammed in reverse, back towards the
No. 2-1 crosscut, to load another shield. As he rounded the corner from the setup face into the
No. 2-1 crosscut, the No. 1054 scoop struck the shield partially loaded on Bonamo’s No. 2007



                                                 4
scoop. The impact shoved the shield further onto the front of the No. 2007 scoop, striking Reece
and pinning him between the underside of the shield canopy and the scoop’s glancer bars.

Bonamo exited the cab of the scoop and called for help while moving in Tingley’s direction.
Tingley trammed forward toward the setup face and was trying to determine what he struck when
he heard Bonamo. Tingley exited his scoop and observed Reece pinned between the shield
canopy and the No. 2007 scoop’s glancer bars. Tingley started yelling and signaling with his
light towards the setup face headgate for help.

Rankin was at the shield Tingley had just set and responded to Tingley’s call for help. Seeing
Reece, Rankin immediately went to call Gordon Hoover, shift supervisor, for help and to retrieve
first aid equipment. Hoover travelled to the 3 Left section.

Ralph Dunlop, longwall utility, was also working on the setup face when he heard Tingley call
for help and responded to the accident. Dunlop saw Reece pinned between the shield canopy and
the scoop’s glancer bars and realized the shield canopy needed to be raised to free Reece. Dunlop
went to the headgate and disconnected the shield pressure hose that was being used to pressurize
the shields on the setup face. Dunlop started stretching it out to reach the shield on the No. 2007
scoop. Lucas Riley, longwall section supervisor, had just left the 3 Left section on his way out of
the mine when he learned of the accident and traveled back to the No. 2-1 crosscut and aided
Dunlop with the hose. They connected the shield pressure hose to the shield pinning Reece and
pressurized it, lifting the shield off Reece.

Cody Holland, maintenance supervisor; William Rinderer, roof bolter on a continuous mining
machine; and Shawn Silver, longwall machine operator, arrived at the scene. Silver brought first
aid supplies and a backboard. The miners placed Reece on the backboard and transported him to
the emergency ride. Tom Ott, longwall maintenance manager, and Lance Rossini, longwall
maintenance coordinator, arrived as Reece was being placed into the emergency ride. Rankin
drove the emergency ride while Rinderer, Ott, Rossini, and Holland provided aid to Reece.
Hoover met the ride on his way into the section and notified Jason Collins, dispatcher, of the
accident. Collins made the call to 911 at 10:30 a.m.

Erik Costello, continuous mining machine mechanic and emergency medical technician (EMT),
met the emergency ride on the way out of the mine. Costello entered the ride and Rossini exited
to make room. Costello assessed Reece, did not detect a pulse, and made the decision to attempt
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Sloan Geho, assistant electrical coordinator and EMT,
entered the emergency ride and assisted with CPR. Costello radioed Collins to request life flight
transportation from the mine for Reece. The emergency ride arrived at the portal bottom and
transported Reece to the surface. Reece’s care was turned over to Dallas Emergency Medical
Services (EMS). Dallas EMS paramedics provided an assessment to Matthew Davis, Doctor of
Osteopathic Medicine at WV Medical Coordination Center, who pronounced Reece dead at
11:18 a.m.




                                                5
                            INVESTIGATION OF THE ACCIDENT

On April 3, 2026, at 11:14 a.m., Matthew Cunningham, safety director, called the Department of
Labor National Contact Center (DOLNCC). The DOLNCC notified Tyler Peddicord, assistant
district manager. James Baker, assistant district manager, received email notification of the
accident and notified Larry Johnson, supervisory mine safety and health inspector. Johnson sent
Ralph James, mine safety and health inspector, to the mine to secure the scene and obtain written
statements from miners. Baker assigned Joedy Gutta, mine safety and health specialist, as the
lead investigator and they traveled to the mine. Peddicord assigned Allan Jack, mine safety and
health specialist, to assist in the investigation and he traveled to the mine.

At 12:52 p.m., James issued an order under the provisions of Section 103(k) of the Mine Act to
ensure the safety of the miners and preservation of evidence. Gutta and Baker arrived at the mine
at 2:40 p.m. and Jack arrived at 3:18 p.m.

The MSHA accident investigation team together with the West Virginia Office of Miners’ Health
Safety and Training conducted an examination of the accident scene, interviewed miners and
mine management, and reviewed conditions and work procedures relevant to the accident. Refer
to Appendix B for a list of persons who participated in the investigation.

                                          DISCUSSION

Location of the Accident
The accident occurred on the 3 Left longwall setup in the No. 2-1 crosscut. The No. 2-1 crosscut
was the only accessible roadway to the setup face because the shields were already set from the
headgate to the 8th shield and from the tailgate to the 52nd shield. Investigators believe the turn
from the setup face prevented a clear line of sight from the No. 1054 scoop operator’s
compartment to identify the No. 2007 scoop and shield sitting in the No. 2-1 crosscut.

Equipment Involved
The equipment involved in the accident included two Caterpillar Model SH650 battery scoops
and a Caterpillar Model 2013 longwall shield. The scoops were equipped with glancer bars that
were designed to prevent a longwall shield canopy from damaging the operator canopy or other
components installed on top of the scoops.

The No. 1054 scoop made impact with the shield that was partially loaded on the No. 2007
scoop. The investigators inspected and tested the scoop and determined the operating condition
of the scoop did not contribute to the accident.

The No. 2007 scoop was stationary while repairs were being made to the winch reel. The
investigators visually inspected the scoop and tested the directional lights but did not perform
function testing of the scoop since it was partially loaded with the shield and was not being
operated at the time of the accident. The investigators found the scoop parked with the
directional lights on and facing away from the setup face. The investigators determined the
condition of the scoop did not contribute to the accident.



                                                 6
The Caterpillar shield, serial number 4088598, located on the duck bill of the No. 2007 scoop,
was collapsed in a transport position, not connected to any hydraulic lines, and unable to be
operated at the time of the accident. The investigators determined that the condition of the shield
did not contribute to the accident.

Maintenance and Repairs in Active Tram Roadway Procedures
The operator did not have written policies or procedures to address performing maintenance or
equipment repairs in an active tram roadway. There were no barricades, blocking, or warning
lights in place to prevent equipment from entering the No. 2-1 crosscut. There was also no
communication with the other scoop operators that the No. 2007 scoop was being repaired in the
crosscut. Investigators determined this contributed to the accident.

Examinations
A pre-shift examination of the 3 Left section was conducted on April 3, 2026, between 5:00 a.m.
and 5:28 a.m. The examination did not document any violations or hazardous conditions present.
The investigators determined that the examination did not contribute to the accident.

Training and Experience
Reece had 18 years of mining experience, with over 11 years at the Ohio County Mine and 17
years as a section supervisor. Reece received annual refresher training on February 17, 2026.
Investigators determined Reece received all training in accordance with MSHA Part 48 training
regulations.

Tingley had 4 years total mining experience, with 3 years and 6 months at the Ohio County
Mine. He had 2 years and 6 months of experience as a longwall utility laborer. Tingley received
task training on the Caterpillar SH650 scoop on October 18, 2024, and annual refresher training
on October 18, 2025. Investigators determined Tingley received all training in accordance with
MSHA Part 48 training regulations.

Bonamo had 10 years total mining experience including 7 months as a general inside laborer at
the Ohio County Mine. Bonamo received scoop operator task training on November 13, 2025,
and annual refresher training on August 20, 2025. Based on testimony, Bonamo was trained on
the Caterpillar SH650 scoop by Reece on April 2, 2026, but no documentation could be
provided. Investigators determined Bonamo received all training in accordance with MSHA Part
48 training regulations.

                                   ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS

The accident investigation team conducted an analysis to identify the underlying causes of the
accident. The accident investigation team identified the following root cause, and the mine
operator implemented the corresponding corrective action to prevent a recurrence.

1. Root Cause: The mine operator did not have policies or procedures to address performing
   maintenance or repairs.




                                                 7
Corrective Action: A safeguard was issued to address longwall set up and recovery regarding
work performed on scoops and mobile equipment in haulage and tram roads. All impacted
miners have been trained on the safeguard requirements.




                                           8
                                        CONCLUSION

On April 3, 2026, at 10:21 a.m., Darin Reece, a 36-year-old section supervisor with 18 years of
mining experience, died after he was struck by a longwall shield and pinned against a scoop.

The accident occurred because the mine operator did not develop written policies and procedures
addressing repairs to equipment.


Approved By:



________________________________                                        ____________________
Carlos T. Mosley                                                                Date
District Manager




                                                9
                                 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS

1. A 103(k) order was issued to Ohio County Coal Resources, Inc.

   A fatal accident occurred on April 3, 2026, at 10:21 a.m. This order is being issued under the
   authority of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, under Section 103(k) to insure
   the safety of all persons at the mine and requires the operator to obtain the approval of an
   authorized representative of MSHA of any plan to recover any person in the mine or to
   recover the mine or affected area. This order prohibits any activity in the affected area. The
   operator is reminded of the obligation to preserve all evidence that would aid in investigating
   the cause or causes of the accident in accordance with 30 CFR 50.12.

2. A 314(b) safeguard was issued to Ohio County Coal Resources, Inc. under the provisions of
   30 CFR 75.1403.

   On April 3, 2026, at 10:21 a.m., a section supervisor died after he was struck by a longwall
   shield and pinned against a scoop while performing maintenance.

   This is a notice to provide safeguard for the movement of equipment:

   A. No work shall be performed on mobile equipment while a shield is loaded or partially
      loaded.

   B. No work shall be performed on mobile equipment in, active tram road if the mobile
      equipment can be removed from the tram road.

   C. If mobile equipment cannot be removed and repairs are being made in an active tram
      road, approved strobe lights, and readily visible extension rods (pogo sticks) or cones
      shall be used in all working areas of an underground mine where maintenance or repair
      work is being performed and where there is a risk of collision or contact by any other
      equipment that may be traveling in the affected area. The strobe lights, and extension
      rods or cones shall be installed to provide warning to mobile equipment approaching the
      work area.

   D. A foreman shall be responsible for communicating the location of repair work activity to
      mobile equipment operators utilizing the haulage or tram roads where the miners are
      working.




                                               10
APPENDIX A – Map of the Accident Location




                 11
                 APPENDIX B – Persons Participating in the Investigation

                             Ohio County Coal Company, Inc.
Eric Koontz                                                                    Vice President
Kyle Abeyta                                                        Corporate Safety Manager
John Hayes                                                         Corporate Safety Manager
Brian Hough                                                        Corporate Safety Manager
Michael Savasta                                                    Corporate Safety Manager
Ray Wilhelm                                                                 General Manager
David Cutlip                                                                  Superintendent
Drew Dally                                                                    Superintendent
Matthew Cunningham                                                            Safety Director
Bryan Rankin                                                    Longwall Support Supervisor
Lucas Riley                                                     Longwall Section Supervisor
Sloan Geho                                                   Assistant Electrical Coordinator
Lance Rossini                                            Longwall Maintenance Coordinator
Tom Ott                                                     Longwall Maintenance Manager
Gordon Hoover                                                                Shift Supervisor
Cody Holland                                                         Maintenance Supervisor
Andrew Balcar                                                                General Counsel
Christopher Pence                                              Attorney / Hardy Pence PLLC
Michael Taylor                                                 Attorney / Hardy Pence PLLC
Justin Wade                                            Continuous Mining Machine Operator
Greggory Pepperling                                Roof Bolter (Continuous Mining Machine)
William Rinderer                                   Roof Bolter (Continuous Mining Machine)
Erik Costello                                         Continuous Mining Machine Mechanic
Justin Schafer                                                                      Mechanic
Michael Sprowls                                                                     Mechanic
Shawn Silver                                                     Longwall Machine Operator
Travis Altmeyer                                                              Longwall Utility
Ralph Dunlop                                                                 Longwall Utility
Garrett Tingley                                                              Longwall Utility
Allan Bonamo                                                          General Inside Laborer
Jason Collins                                                                      Dispatcher
Beryl Blake                                                             Shuttle Car Operator

                             United Mine Workers of America
Thomas McGary                                                     International Representative
Michael Kelley                                                                 Local President
Josh Downing                                                                Safety Committee
Mike Knight                                                                 Safety Committee

                 West Virginia Office of Miners’ Health Safety and Training
Frank Foster                                                                         Director
Jeremy Ball                                                                   Deputy Director
John Boothroyd                                                     Assistant Attorney General

                                            12
Edward Peddicord                                                     Inspector-at-Large
Tadd Rankin                                                Assistant Inspector-at-Large
Michael Matlick                                                       District Inspector
Chris Ray                                                             District Inspector
Ricky Rinehart                                                        District Inspector
John Sparks                                                           District Inspector

                   Mine Safety and Health Administration
James Baker                                                Assistant District Manager
Benjamin Hall                            Supervisory Mine Safety and Health Specialist
Rodney Fultz                                         Mine Safety and Health Specialist
Joedy Gutta                                          Mine Safety and Health Specialist
Allan Jack                                           Mine Safety and Health Specialist
Ralph James                                          Mine Safety and Health Inspector




                                    13
