Federal Communications Commission                            DA 26-1006


                                            Before the
                                 Federal Communications Commission
                                       Washington, D.C. 20554


 In the Matter of                                      )
                                                       )
 Vazquez Broadcasting Corporation                      )      File No.: EB-FIELDNER-24-00037648
 Licensee of AM Station WSDS                           )      Facility ID: 35335
                                                       )      FRN: 0022811780
 Salem Township, Michigan                              )
                                                       )

                                       NOTICE OF VIOLATION

                                                                           Released: September 18, 2026

By the Regional Director, Region One, Enforcement Bureau:

         1.      This is a Notice of Violation (Notice) issued pursuant to section 1.89 of the
Commission’s rules1 to Vazquez Broadcasting Corporation (Vazquez Broadcasting), licensee of AM
radio station WSDS (Station) in Ypsilanti, Michigan. Pursuant to section 1.89(a) of the Commission’s
rules, issuance of this Notice does not preclude the Enforcement Bureau from further action if warranted,
including issuing a Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture for the violations noted herein.2
        2.      On July 14, 2026, an agent of the Enforcement Bureau’s Columbia Office inspected the
Station and observed the following violations:
             a. 47 CFR § 73.1820(a): “Entries must be made in the station log…The following
                information must be entered…(1)(iii) An entry of each test and activation of the
                Emergency Alert System (EAS) pursuant to the requirement of part 11 of this
                chapter and the EAS Operating Handbook. Stations may keep EAS data in a
                special EAS log which shall be maintained at a convenient location; however,
                this log is considered a part of the station log.” At the time of the inspection,
                there was no station log available for inspection that included entries of the EAS
                tests received, including the required weekly or monthly EAS tests from the
                Local Primary Stations and the Federal Emergency Management Agency's
                Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS). Furthermore, the entries
                stored in the memory of the Company’s EAS encoder/decoder, a Sage Digital
                ENDEC, were dated 1997.

             b. 47 CFR § 11.52(d)(1): “EAS Participants must comply with the following
                requirements: With respect to monitoring for EAS messages that are formatted
                in accordance with the EAS Protocol, EAS Participants must monitor two EAS
                sources. The monitoring assignments of each broadcast station and cable system
                and wireless cable system are specified in the State EAS Plan and FCC
                Mapbook. They are developed in accordance with FCC monitoring priorities.”
                The Station was monitoring Local Primary Stations WJR (760 AM) and WWJ
                (950 AM). But the Michigan State EAS Plan specifies that stations in the


1 47 CFR § 1.89.

2 47 CFR § 1.89(a).

                                     Federal Communications Commission                                 DA 26-1006


                  Washtenaw-Lenawee Counties, where the WSDS is located, are required to
                  monitor WEMU (89.1 FM) and WWWW (102.9 FM).3

              c. 47 CFR § 73.1560(a)(1): “Except for AM stations using modulation dependent carrier
                 level (MDCL) control technology, or as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, the
                 antenna input power of an AM station, as determined by the procedures specified in §
                 73.51 must be maintained as near as practicable to the authorized antenna input power
                 and may not be less than 90 percent nor greater than 105 percent of the authorized
                 power.” At the time of inspection, the agent observed that the Station was not using
                 MDCL control technology and was operating with 1104 Watts of power during the
                 daytime, which is 36.6% more than the authorized daytime power of 808 Watts.4
              d. 47 CFR § 73.1560(a)(2): “Whenever the transmitter of an AM station cannot be placed
                 into the specified operating mode at the time required, transmissions of the station must
                 be immediately terminated. However, if the radiated field at any bearing or elevation
                 does not exceed that permitted for that time of day, operation in the mode with the lesser
                 radiated field may continue under the notification procedures of paragraph (d) of this
                 section.” At the time of inspection, the Station’s Chief Operator informed the agent that
                 the Station was incapable of operating within its nighttime parameters. That night, the
                 agent confirmed with measurements that the Station continued to operate after sunset
                 with its authorized daytime power and antenna pattern.5
              e. 47 CFR § 73.69(a): “Each station using a directional antenna must have in operation at
                 the transmitter site an FCC authorized antenna monitor.” The Station’s license requires it
                 to use a directional antenna.6 At the time of the inspection, the antenna monitor was not
                 fully operational and could not provide reliable phase and current readings for each tower
                 in the Station’s directional antenna array.
         3.      Pursuant to section 308(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (Act), and
section 1.89 of the Commission’s rules, we seek additional information concerning the violations and any
remedial actions taken.7 Therefore, Vazquez Broadcasting must submit a written statement concerning
this matter within twenty (20) days of release of this Notice. The response (i) must fully explain each
violation, including all relevant surrounding facts and circumstances, (ii) must contain a statement of the
specific action(s) taken to correct each violation and preclude recurrence, and 
