                                                                                   #2023-031
                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                        DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
                OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY


In the Matter of:                                               )
                                                                )
United Fidelity Bank, FSB                                       )          AA-CE-2023-40
Evansville, Indiana                                             )
                                                                )

                                      CONSENT ORDER

       WHEREAS, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) has supervisory

authority over United Fidelity Bank, FSB, Evansville, Indiana (“Bank”);

       WHEREAS, the OCC intends to initiate cease and desist proceedings against the Bank

pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), through the issuance of a Notice of Charges, for engaging in

unsafe or unsound practice(s), including those relating to oversight by its management and board

of directors (“board”); strategic planning; capital planning; stress testing; policy development

and approval; management and board reporting; contingency funding planning; model risk

management; concentration risk management; credit review; credit analysis; risk assessment;

allowance for credit losses methodology; data management; internal audit; and internal controls.

These unsafe or unsound practice(s) are included in, but may not be limited to, the areas of

corporate governance and enterprise risk management, credit underwriting and administration,

liquidity risk management, and interest rate risk management;

       WHEREAS, in the interest of cooperation and to avoid additional costs associated with

administrative and judicial proceedings with respect to the above matter, the Bank, by and

through its duly elected and acting board, consents to the issuance of this Consent Order

(“Order”), by the OCC through the duly authorized representative of the Comptroller of the

Currency (“Comptroller”); and
        NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority vested in the OCC by Section 8(b) of

the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), the OCC hereby orders

that:

                                            ARTICLE I

                                          JURISDICTION

        (1)      The Bank is an “insured depository institution” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(c)(2).

        (2)      The Bank is a federal savings association within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

§ 1813(q)(1)(C), and is chartered and examined by the OCC. See 12 U.S.C. §§ 1461 et seq.,

5412(b)(2)(B).

        (3)      The OCC is the “appropriate federal banking agency” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(q) and is therefore authorized to initiate and maintain this cease and desist

action against the Bank pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b).

                                            ARTICLE II

                                 COMPTROLLER’S FINDINGS

        The Comptroller finds, and the Bank neither admits nor denies, the following:

        (1)      The Bank has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, including those related to

its board and management oversight; strategic planning; capital planning; stress testing; policy

development and approval; management and board reporting; contingency funding planning;

model risk management; concentration risk management; credit review; credit analysis; risk

assessment; allowance for credit losses methodology; data management; internal audit; and

internal controls.




                                                  2
                                                ARTICLE III

                                 COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITIES

        (1)      The board shall monitor and oversee the Bank’s compliance with the provisions

of this Order. The board shall meet at least monthly and maintain minutes of its meetings.

        (2)      Within forty-five (45) days of the date of this Order, and thereafter within thirty

(30) days after the end of each quarter, the board shall submit to the Assistant Deputy

Comptroller (“ADC”) a written progress report setting forth in detail:

                 (a)      a description of the corrective actions needed to achieve compliance with

                          each Article of this Order;

                 (b)      the specific corrective actions undertaken to comply with each Article of

                          this Order; and

                 (c)      the results and status of the corrective actions.

                                                     ARTICLE IV

                                CAPITAL PLAN AND HIGHER MINIMUMS

        (1)      Within sixty (60) days of the date of this Order, the Bank shall achieve and

thereafter maintain the following capital ratios as defined in and as calculated in accordance with

12 C.F.R. Part 3:1

                (a)      a common equity tier 1 capital ratio at least equal to eight percent (8%);

                (b)      a leverage ratio at least equal to nine percent (9%);

                (c)      a tier 1 capital ratio at least equal to ten percent (10%); and

                (d)      a total capital ratio at least equal to twelve percent (12%).



1
  For purposes of the capital conservation buffer set forth at 12 C.F.R. § 3.11, the Bank’s minimum total capital
ratio, minimum tier 1 capital ratio, and minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio requirements are deemed to be
those that are set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 3.10.


                                                        3
        (2)      Notwithstanding any election to use the community bank leverage ratio (“CBLR”)

framework under 12 C.F.R. § 3.12, the Bank is subject to the minimum capital levels prescribed

in paragraph (1) of this Article pursuant to the OCC’s authority to impose affirmative corrective

actions pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b)(6) and must demonstrate compliance with these

requirements by completing Schedule RC-R to the Consolidated Reports of Condition and

Income in accordance with the instructions for Banks that have not made the CBLR election in

addition to Schedule RC-R, CBLR.

        (3)      The requirement in this Order to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any

capital measure means that the Bank may not be deemed to be “well capitalized” for purposes of

12 U.S.C. § 1831o and 12 C.F.R. Part 6, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 6.4.2

        (4)      Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the board shall adopt an effective

internal capital planning process to assess the Bank’s capital adequacy in relation to its overall

risks and to ensure maintenance of appropriate capital levels, which shall in no event be less than

the requirements of paragraph (1) of this Article. Thereafter, management shall implement, and

the board shall verify, no less than annually, or more frequently if appropriate or required by the

ADC, adherence to the capital planning process. The capital planning process shall be consistent

with safe and sound practices and ensure the integrity, objectivity, and consistency of the process

through adequate governance. Refer to the “Capital and Dividends” booklet of the Comptroller’s

Handbook.

        (5)      Within sixty (60) days of the date of this Order, the board shall submit to the

ADC for review and determination of no supervisory objection an acceptable written capital plan

for the Bank, consistent with the Strategic Plan required by Article VI, covering at least a five-


2
 The Bank may not solicit, accept, renew, or roll over any brokered deposit (as defined in 12 C.F.R. § 337.6(a)(2))
except in compliance with the applicable restrictions of 12 U.S.C. § 1831f and 12 C.F.R. § 337.6.


                                                         4
year period (“Capital Plan”). Refer to “Capital and Dividends” booklet of the Comptroller’s

Handbook. Except as provided in paragraph (7) of this Article, the Bank’s Capital Plan shall, at a

minimum:

               (a)    appropriately quantify and support reasonable board-approved capital

                      limits, which shall in no event be less than the requirements of paragraph

                      (1) of this Article;

               (b)    quantitatively and qualitatively evaluate all relevant risks to capital using

                      appropriate, supported assumptions;

               (c)    determine the Bank’s capital needs in relation to material risks and

                      strategic direction, consistent with the Strategic Plan required by Article

                      VI;

               (d)    identify and establish a strategy to maintain capital and strengthen capital

                      if necessary and establish a contingency commensurate with the Bank’s

                      overall risk and complexity; and

               (e)    include appropriate capital stress testing, including for commercial real

                      estate concentrations.

       (6)     The Bank may declare or pay a dividend or make a capital distribution only:

               (a)    when the dividend or capital distribution would comply with 12 U.S.C.

                      § 1831o(d)(1) and 12 C.F.R. §§ 3.11(a)(4) and 5.55; and

               (b)    following the ADC’s prior written determination of no supervisory

                      objection to the dividend or capital distribution.

       (7)     Within thirty (30) days following receipt of the ADC’s written determination of

no supervisory objection to the Bank’s Capital Plan or to any subsequent amendment to the




                                                5
Capital Plan, the board shall adopt and Bank management, subject to board review and ongoing

monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the Capital Plan.

The board shall review the effectiveness of the Capital Plan at least annually, no later than

January 31 each year, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC, and amend the

Capital Plan as needed or directed by the OCC. Any amendment to the Capital Plan must be

submitted to the ADC for review and prior written determination of no supervisory objection.

       (8)     If the Bank fails to submit an acceptable Capital Plan as required by

paragraph (5) of this Article, fails to implement or adhere to a Capital Plan to which the ADC

has taken no supervisory objection pursuant to paragraph (5) of this Article, or fails to achieve

and maintain the minimum capital ratios as required by paragraph (1) of this Article, then in the

sole discretion of the ADC, the Bank shall, upon written direction of the ADC, within sixty (60)

days develop and submit to the ADC for review and prior written determination of no

supervisory objection, a Disposition Plan that shall detail the board’s proposal to sell or merge

the Bank, or implement a voluntary liquidation plan in accordance with 12 C.F.R. § 5.48.

       (9)     In the event that the Disposition Plan submitted by the Bank’s board outlines a

sale or merger of the Bank, the Disposition Plan shall, at a minimum, address the steps that will

be taken and the associated timeline to ensure that a definitive agreement for the sale or merger

is executed not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of the ADC’s written

determination of no supervisory objection to the Disposition Plan.

       (10)    If the Disposition Plan outlines a voluntary liquidation of the Bank, the

Disposition Plan shall detail the actions and steps necessary to accomplish the liquidation in

conformance with 12 C.F.R. § 5.48, and the dates by which each step of the liquidation shall be

completed, including the date by which the Bank will terminate its charter. In the event of




                                                 6
liquidation, the Bank shall hold a shareholder vote, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 5.48, and commence

liquidation within one hundred twenty (120) days of receiving the ADC’s written determination

of no supervisory objection to the Disposition Plan.

                                               ARTICLE V

                   BOARD OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT SUPERVISION

        (1)     Within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the date of this Order, the board

 shall ensure that the Bank has a sufficient number of effective and qualified management in

 place for all senior executive officers to carry out the board’s policies, take the necessary steps

 to implement corporate governance and decision-making processes to correct the deficiencies

 identified in the most recent Report of Examination and to timely address deficiencies

 described in future or any supervisory or regulatory communications, and take the necessary

 steps to ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations and compliance with

 the Order. For the purposes of this Order, “deficiencies” includes deficient practices, including

 policies, procedures, practices, and controls; and violations of laws, regulations, final agency

 orders, conditions imposed in writing, or written agreements.

        (2)     Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the board shall:

                 (a)     engage an independent third party to review board and management

                         supervision. The review must assess and conclude on the sufficiency of

                         board and management composition, an assessment of the board’s

                         collective and individual director’s overall strengths and weaknesses,

                         committee structures, reporting lines, and staffing levels for each area of

                         the Bank relative to the institution’s activities and risk profile; and

                 (b)     establish or adjust job descriptions for the Bank’s senior management



                                                  7
              (Executive, Senior, First, and Vice President) positions.

(3)   Within ninety (90) days of the date of this Order, the board shall ensure:

      (a)     the development and implementation a written plan to address findings

              from the independent third-party assessment required under paragraph

              (2)(a) of this Article;

      (b)     the population of the Bank’s policies and procedures are identified and

              assessed for adequacy relative to current practices and reasonable risk

              appetite. The assessment must determine which policies require

              improvement, a mechanism to monitor revisions, and approval of new or

              updated policies and procedures, a reasonable timeline for

              implementation, and an ongoing process to ensure policies remain

              current as management practices evolve;

      (c)     the population of the Bank’s key internal models used for decision

              making and risk identification is identified, and an adequate process is in

              place to validate the models, on a periodic basis based on risk, and to

              ensure that management appropriately responds to any model validation,

              audit, compliance, or regulatory criticisms and policy breaches; and

      (d)     the board receives and reviews sufficient reporting from management,

              including scope, frequency, timing, and content, regarding the operation

              of the Bank and compliance with this Order to enable the directors to

              provide oversight and fulfill their fiduciary duties and other

              responsibilities required by law in accordance with safe and sound

              practices (refer to the “Corporate and Risk Governance” booklet of the



                                        8
                         Comptroller’s Handbook for guidance).

                                           ARTICLE VI

                                           STRATEGIC PLAN

       (1)     Within ninety (90) days of the date of this Order, the board shall submit to the

ADC for review and prior written determination of no supervisory objection an acceptable,

revised written strategic plan for the Bank, covering at least a five-year period (“Strategic Plan”).

The Strategic Plan shall establish objectives for addressing the Bank’s high risk profile, earnings

performance, loan and total asset growth, balance sheet mix, off-balance-sheet activities, liability

structure, capital and liquidity adequacy, and market segments together with strategies to achieve

those objectives, and shall, at a minimum, include:

                 (a)     a mission statement that forms the framework for the establishment of

                         strategic goals and objectives;

                 (b)     the strategic goals and objectives to be accomplished, including key

                         financial indicators and risk tolerances;

                 (c)     a risk profile that evaluates credit, interest rate, liquidity, price,

                         operational, compliance, strategic, and reputation risks in relationship to

                         capital;

                 (d)     concentration limits commensurate with the Bank’s risk profile and

                         capital base;

                 (e)     an assessment of the Bank’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and

                         threats that impact its strategic goals and objectives; and

                 (f)     a realistic and comprehensive financial forecast to include projections

                         for major balance sheet and income statement accounts and desired




                                                   9
                         financial ratios over the period covered by the Strategic Plan.

       (2)     At least quarterly, a written evaluation of the Bank’s performance against the

Strategic Plan shall be prepared by Bank management and submitted to the board. The board’s

review of the evaluation and discussion of any required corrective actions to address any

identified shortcomings shall be documented in the board’s meeting minutes.

       (3)     Within thirty (30) days following the board’s receipt of the ADC’s written

determination of no supervisory objection to the revised Strategic Plan or to any subsequent

update or amendment to the Strategic Plan, the board shall adopt, and Bank management, subject

to board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure

adherence to the Strategic Plan. The board shall review the effectiveness of the Strategic Plan,

including whether the bank has sufficient staffing, expertise, internal controls, information

systems; policies; procedures; and other risk management systems to effectively execute

strategic initiatives in a safe and sound manner, at least annually, no later than thirty (30) days

after each calendar year end, and more frequently, if necessary or required by the OCC in

writing. The board shall amend the Strategic Plan as needed or directed by the OCC. Any update

or amendment to the Strategic Plan must be submitted to the ADC for review and prior written

determination of no supervisory objection.

       (4)     Until the Strategic Plan required under this Article has been submitted by the

Bank for the ADC’s review, has received a written determination of no supervisory objection

from the ADC, and has been adopted by the Board, the Bank shall not significantly deviate from

the products, services, asset composition and size, funding sources, structure, operations,

policies, procedures, and markets of the Bank that existed immediately before the effective date

of this Order without first obtaining the ADC’s prior written determination of no supervisory




                                                 10
objection to such significant deviation.

       (5)     The Bank may not initiate any action that significantly deviates from a Strategic

Plan (that has received written determination of no supervisory objection from the ADC and has

been adopted by the Board) without a prior written determination of no supervisory objection

from the ADC.

       (6)     Any request by the Bank for prior written determination of no supervisory

objection to a significant deviation described in paragraphs (4) or (5) of this Article shall be

submitted in writing to the ADC at least sixty (60) days in advance of the proposed significant

deviation. Such written request by the Bank shall include an assessment of the effects of such

proposed change on the Bank’s condition and risk profile, including a profitability analysis and

an evaluation of the adequacy of the Bank’s organizational structure, staffing, management

information systems, internal controls, and written policies and procedures to identify, measure,

monitor, and control the risks associated with the proposed change.

       (7)     For the purposes of this Article, changes that may constitute a significant

deviation include, but are not limited to, a change in the Bank’s markets, marketing strategies,

products and services, marketing partners, underwriting practices and standards, credit

administration, account management, collection strategies or operations, fee structure or pricing,

accounting processes and practices, asset composition and size, or funding strategy, any of

which, alone or in the aggregate, may have a material effect on the Bank’s operations or financial

performance; or any other changes in personnel, operations, or external factors that may have a

material effect on the Bank’s operations or financial performance.




                                                 11
                                           ARTICLE VII

                              CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT

       (1)     Within sixty (60) days of the date of this Order, the board shall submit to the

ADC for review and prior written determination of no supervisory objection an acceptable

written Concentration Risk Management Program (“Concentration Program”). Refer to the

“Concentrations of Credit” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook. For purposes of this Article,

a concentration of credit is as defined in the “Concentrations of Credit” booklet of the

Comptroller’s Handbook.

        (2)    The Concentration Program shall include, at a minimum:

                 (a)     proper identification of the Bank’s concentrations of credit including,

                         but not limited to, the Bank’s concentration in commercial real estate,

                         including multifamily affordable housing;

                 (b)     a periodic written analysis of the concentrations of credit identified

                         under paragraph (2), subparagraph (a) of this Article that identifies and

                         assesses the inherent risks in Article VI, paragraph (1), subparagraph (c)

                         and considers the impact of concentration levels on the plan in Article

                         VI and the aspects of Article VI, paragraph (1), subparagraphs (b), (d),

                         and (f);

                 (c)     a periodic written market analysis for the primary geographic markets of

                         the concentrations of credit identified under paragraph (2), subparagraph

                         (a) of this Article;

                 (d)     the establishment of safe and sound, formal limits and sub-limits for all

                         concentrations of credit based on a percentage of tier 1 capital plus the




                                                 12
                       allowance for credit losses, appropriately stratified by, but not limited to,

                       property type, industry, geographic market, tenant concentrations,

                       occupancy, risk rating, loan structure, loan-to-values, debt service

                       coverage, and loans with policy exceptions;

                (e)    timely and accurate reporting of concentrations to the board monthly

                       based upon total committed amounts relative to board-approved limits;

                (f)    development and implementation of action plans, approved by the board,

                       to reduce concentrations to conform to the established limits set in

                       paragraph (2), subparagraph (d) of this Article, including strategies and

                       procedures when concentrations approach or exceed board-approved

                       limits;

                (g)    portfolio-level stress tests to quantify the impact of changes to portfolio-

                       specific characteristics and market conditions on earnings and capital,

                       consistent with the size, characteristics, and risk profile of the

                       multifamily affordable housing portfolio, that contain sufficient

                       sensitivity analysis; and

                (h)    a detailed contingency plan to reduce concentration risk in the event of

                       adverse market conditions, including reasonable action plans.

       (3)    Within thirty (30) days following receipt of the ADC’s written determination of

no supervisory objection to the Concentration Program or to any subsequent amendment to the

Concentration Program, the board shall adopt and Bank management, subject to board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the

Concentration Program. The board shall review the effectiveness of the Concentration Program




                                               13
no later than thirty (30) days after each calendar year-end, and more frequently, if necessary or if

required by the OCC in writing, and amend the Concentration Program as needed or directed by

the OCC. Any amendment to the Concentration Program must be submitted to the ADC for

review and prior written determination of no supervisory objection.

                                         ARTICLE VIII

                             LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT

       (1)     Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the board shall submit to the

ADC for review and prior written determination of no supervisory objection an acceptable

written Liquidity Risk Management Program (“Liquidity Program”) for the Bank, covering at

least a five-year period. The Liquidity Program shall provide for the identification, measurement,

monitoring, and control of the Bank’s liquidity risk exposure. The Liquidity Program shall

emphasize the importance of a cushion of highly liquid assets; diversified funding sources; and a

formal, well-developed, written contingency funding plan, with robust stress testing. Refer to the

“Liquidity” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook. In addition to the general requirements set

forth above, the Liquidity Program shall, at a minimum:

                 (a)     identify appropriate policies, procedures, and risk limits to manage

                         liquidity risk, commensurate with the Bank’s complexity, risk profile,

                         and business activities. Risk limits must be supported with robust

                         analysis and informed by the potential impact of severe short-term stress

                         testing;

                 (b)     ensure appropriate monthly reporting to the board, or a committee

                         thereof, and, if established, applicable management committee including

                         reporting on adherence to all liquidity-related policy limits;




                                                 14
                 (c)     develop a plan to improve the Bank’s primary liquidity position (liquid

                         assets) and contingent sources, including secured funding availability,

                         over both the short- and medium-term, with timelines and key dates

                         included; and

                 (d)     include an appropriate contingency funding plan that incorporates, at a

                         minimum:

                         (i)    an identification of early warning liquidity triggers;

                         (ii)   a quantitative projection of expected funding capacity under

                                appropriate short- and intermediate-term stress events, based on

                                realistic assessments of the behaviors of funding providers during

                                stress events; and

                        (iii)   detail of reporting lines for internal and external communication

                                throughout a stress event.

       (2)     Within thirty (30) days following the board’s receipt of the ADC’s written

determination of no supervisory objection to the Liquidity Program or to any subsequent update

or amendment to the Liquidity Program, the board shall adopt, and Bank management, subject to

board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure

adherence to the Liquidity Program. The board shall review and update the Liquidity Program,

including after the expiration of the five-year period referenced in paragraph (1) of this Article,

at least annually, no later than January 31 of each year, and more frequently, if necessary, or if

required by the OCC in writing. The Bank shall submit the revised Liquidity Program to the

ADC for prior written determination of no supervisory objection. At the next board meeting

following receipt of the ADC’s written determination of no supervisory objection, the board shall




                                                 15
adopt and Bank management, subject to board review and ongoing monitoring, shall

immediately implement and adhere to the revised Liquidity Program and any amendments or

revisions thereto.

                                          ARTICLE IX

                         INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

       (1)     Within ninety (90) days of the date of this Order, the board shall adopt a written

Interest Rate Risk Program (“IRR Program”). Refer to the “Interest Rate Risk” booklet of the

Comptroller’s Handbook, OCC Bulletin 2010-1 (“Interagency Advisory on Interest Rate Risk

Management”) (Jan. 2010), OCC Bulletin 2012-5 (“Interest Rate Risk Management: FAQs on

2010 Interagency Advisory on Interest Rate Risk Management”) (Jan. 2012), and OCC Bulletin

2011-12 (“Sound Practices for Model Risk Management: Supervisory Guidance on Model Risk

Management”) (Apr. 2011).

       (2)     The IRR Program shall include, at a minimum:

               (a)    a plan to improve the Bank’s interest rate risk exposure;

               (b)    establishment of prudent short- and long-term tolerance limits for interest

                      rate risk the board is willing to accept, including, but not limited to, net

                      income at risk given the Bank’s business model;

               (c)    adequate and documented support for the reasonableness of assumptions

                      used in the Bank’s interest rate risk model and risk measurement

                      calculations;

               (d)    implementation of effective tools to measure and monitor the Bank’s

                      performance and overall interest rate risk profile, including, but not

                      limited to, dynamic balance sheet model runs and exposures in changes to




                                                16
                       the yield curve;

               (e)     ongoing internal monitoring and backtesting of key deposit beta and decay

                       assumptions on a periodic basis;

               (f)     timely and appropriate quarterly reporting to the board and applicable

                       management committee, including comparison of actual exposures to set

                       limits, and, as applicable, specific action plans to restore exposures to

                       within set limits; and

               (g)     independent review of the Bank’s adherence to the IRR Program,

                       assumptions and inputs used in the Bank’s interest rate risk model,

                       sensitivity analysis and stress testing, validation of the Bank’s interest rate

                       risk model, and backtesting of actual performance to simulated results,

                       including earnings at risk, and net income at risk simulations with

                       appropriate documentation, on at least an annual basis.

       (3)     Upon adoption of the IRR Program, Bank management, subject to board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the

IRR Program. The board shall review the effectiveness of the IRR Program at least annually, and

more frequently, if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing. Any amendment to the IRR

Program must be submitted to the ADC within thirty (30) days of board approval.

                                           ARTICLE X

                     CREDIT UNDERWRITING AND ADMINISTRATION

        (1)    Within ninety (90) days of the date of this Order, the board shall adopt a credit

underwriting and administration program (“Credit Underwriting and Administration Program”)

designed to ensure the Bank obtains and analyzes credit and collateral information sufficient to




                                                 17
identify, monitor, and report the Bank’s credit risk, properly account for loans, and assign

accurate risk ratings in a timely manner. The Credit Underwriting and Administration Program

shall be consistent with safe and sound banking practices.

       (2)     The Credit Underwriting and Administration Program shall, at a minimum,

include:

               (a)     policies that address acceptable loan types, terms, covenants, collateral

                       requirements, supervisory loan-to-value (LTV) limits, and loan-level

                       stress testing;

               (b)     a description of the types of credit information required from borrowers

                       and guarantors prior to making a loan determination, including, annual

                       audited statements, interim financial statements, personal financial

                       statements, and tax returns with supporting schedules;

               (c)     procedures that require any extensions of credit are granted, by renewal or

                       otherwise, only after obtaining the required credit information and

                       adequately analyzing and documenting in credit presentations the

                       borrower’s and guarantor’s cash flow, debt service requirements,

                       contingent liabilities, global liquidity condition, collateral, sensitivity

                       analysis, market analysis, inherent risks, policy exceptions, with

                       assumptions clearly documented, in support of the credit decision;

               (d)     policies and procedures to ensure consistent and accurate debt service

                       coverage calculations are used for underwriting new and existing loans;

               (e)     procedures to identify and accurately track all exceptions and efforts to

                       mitigate or cure exceptions, including but not limited to financial




                                                  18
                      exceptions, collateral exceptions, policy exceptions, underwriting

                      exceptions, and supervisory LTV exceptions;

               (f)    procedures to ensure the number of loans with exceptions, and their

                      aggregate dollar value, are reported to the board on a quarterly basis. The

                      board shall establish, and management shall implement and thereafter

                      ensure adherence to, aggregate exception level limits;

               (g)    a plan to address the Bank’s current exposure to loans exceeding the

                      Bank’s legal lending limit and supervisory LTV limits, with concrete

                      strategies and associated timelines;

               (h)    procedures to establish covenants and identify, track, and approve

                      covenant waivers in accordance with the applicable loan agreements and

                      limit the number and frequency of such exceptions;

               (i)    procedures to report the number of loans with covenant waivers, and their

                      aggregate dollar value, to the board on a quarterly basis; and

               (j)    an independent loan review process, with appropriate frequency, reporting

                      directly to the board or a designated committee thereof.

       (3)     Upon adoption of the Credit Underwriting and Administration Program, Bank

management, subject to board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and

thereafter ensure adherence to the Credit Underwriting and Administration Program. The board

shall review the effectiveness of the Credit Underwriting and Administration Program at least

annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing. Any amendment

to the Credit Underwriting and Administration Program must be submitted to the ADC within

thirty (30) days of board approval.




                                               19
                                          ARTICLE XI

                                      ANNUAL REVIEWS

       (1)    Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the board shall adopt a written

Annual Review Program for the Bank’s commercial loans. The Annual Review Program shall

include, at a minimum:

              (a)    identification of the universe of commercial loans requiring an annual

                     review;

              (b)    development and adherence to an annual review schedule for the

                     commercial loans identified in paragraph (1), subparagraph (a) of this

                     Article;

              (c)    risk-based reviews of commercial lending relationships to support or

                     revise current risk ratings on at least an annual basis that:

                          (i)    include an adequate analysis of repayment capacity, both primary

                                 and secondary sources of repayment, with timely and

                                 comprehensive financial information and a clear audit trail to

                                 accurate DSCR calculations with supporting narrative

                                 conclusions;

                         (ii)    incorporate meaningful stress testing of key variables;

                         (iii)   contain an assessment of the borrower’s performance to

                                 projections or plan, as applicable, with discussion of the impact

                                 of deviations on repayment capacity and risk rating;

                         (iv)    incorporate discussion of the collateral, including most recent

                                 valuation or changes thereto, and condition;




                                                 20
                       (v)      tie geographic market analysis data to the specific loan or project

                                assumptions and reconcile key variances; and

                       (vi)     address refinance risk and the potential impact of significant

                                changes in terms upon maturity or refinance.

              (d)     periodic reporting directly to the board, or designated committee thereof,

                      regarding the status of the internal annual review process.

       (2)    Upon adoption of the Annual Review Program, Bank management, subject to

board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure

adherence to the Annual Review Program and any amendments thereto. The board shall review

the effectiveness of the Annual Review Program at least annually, and more frequently if

necessary or if required by the OCC in writing, and amend the Annual Review Program as

needed or directed by the OCC in writing. Any amendment to the Annual Review Program must

be submitted to the ADC within thirty (30) days of board approval.

                                         ARTICLE XII

                              ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES


       (1)    Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the board shall adopt a written

program for maintaining and reporting an adequate allowance for credit losses (“ACL Program”)

in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and the instructions for

reporting the ACL on the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (“call reports”). Refer

to the “Allowance for Credit Losses” booklet of the Comptroller's Handbook and the

“Interagency Policy Statement on Allowances for Credit Losses” dated April 21, 2023 (OCC

Bulletin 2023-11). The ACL Program shall, at a minimum, include criteria and procedures for:

              (a)     segmenting and documenting financial assets, including the multi-family



                                                21
                        housing portfolio, that share similar risk characteristics, including risk

                        layering, and measuring the expected credit losses from each identified

                        group consistent with GAAP, including Accounting Standards

                        Codification (“ASC”) Subtopic 326-20, at least quarterly;

                (b)     supporting the assumptions and estimation of expected credit losses and

                        adjustments with documentation and analysis of qualitative and

                        environmental factors and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect

                        the collectability of the Bank’s financial assets in addition to consideration

                        of historical credit losses;

                (c)     independently validating the Bank’s ACL methodology on an annual basis

                        and reporting the conclusions to the board, which shall address identified

                        deficiencies through revision of the ACL Program in a manner consistent

                        with this Article; and

                (d)     documenting the board’s determination, at least quarterly, of the adequacy

                        of the Bank’s ACL amount to be reported in the Bank’s call report,

                        including the factors considered and rationale supporting the board’s

                        conclusion.

        (2)     Upon adoption of the ACL Program, Bank management shall immediately

implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the ACL Program.

        (3)     If at any time the Bank’s actual ACL balance is determined to be inappropriate in

comparison to the ACL balance calculated pursuant to this Article, the board shall remedy the

inadequacy through additional provisions from earnings in the quarter the inadequacy is

discovered, prior to the filing of the Bank’s call report. If previously filed call reports are




                                                   22
determined to be inaccurate due to a miscalculated ACL, the Bank must refile such call reports

within sixty (60) days of this order.

                                         ARTICLE XIII

                                    CREDIT DERIVATIVES

       (1)     Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the board shall adopt a written

Credit Derivatives Program. Refer to OCC Bulletin 2011-30 (“Counterparty Credit Risk

Management: Interagency Supervisory Guidance”) (Jul. 2011).

       (2)     The Credit Derivatives Program shall include, at a minimum:

               (a)     a plan to address the Bank’s current exposure to loans exceeding its legal

                       lending limit inappropriately supported by the diminished credit

                       derivatives’ structure;

               (b)     the inclusion of gross loan balances of loans with credit derivatives to

                       calculate credit concentrations, the ACL, and capital stress tests and

                       update internal policies and procedures to reflect this change;

               (c)     revisions to the Bank’s credit derivative policy to include:

                         (i)     criteria for determining when seeking credit protection through a

                                 derivative is desired, including amount and tenor in relation to

                                 the underlying loans;

                         (ii)    expectations for credit derivative risk monitoring, including MIS

                                 and reporting;

                        (iii)    expectations for the credit derivative committee and board;

                        (iv)     meaningful risk limits, including a limit for maximum allowable

                                 exposure to a single-name credit derivative;




                                                  23
                        (v)    expectations and criteria for monitoring counterparty credit risk;

                               and

                       (vi)    expectations for periodic independent audits and model

                               validation of credit derivatives;

              (d)     appropriate counterparty credit risk analyses that:

                        (i)    include a counterparty credit risk assessment framework with

                               established minimum standards tailored to the size and

                               complexity of the counterparty credit risk profile, including, but

                               not limited to, governance, risk measurement and management of

                               counterparty risk metrics and limits, and legal and operational

                               risk management; and

                        (ii)   include an evaluation of the risk that the counterparty could

                               default or deteriorate in creditworthiness before final settlement

                               of contractual obligations.

       (3)    Upon adoption of the Credit Derivatives Program, Bank management, subject to

board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure

adherence to the Credit Derivatives Program and any amendments thereto. The board shall

review the effectiveness of the Credit Derivatives Program at least annually, and more frequently

if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing. Any amendment to the Credit Derivatives

Program must be submitted to the ADC within thirty (30) days of board approval.

                                        ARTICLE XIV

                                     INTERNAL AUDIT

       (1)    Within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Order, the Bank shall revise,



                                               24
and the board shall adopt, a comprehensive, written internal audit program that adequately

assesses controls and operations to allow the board and management to understand the

sufficiency of the Bank’s internal controls system (“Internal Audit Program”). Upon adoption,

Bank management, subject to board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately

implement and adhere to the Internal Audit Program and any amendments or revisions thereto.

       (2)     Management shall ensure the Internal Audit Program’s compliance with the

standards for internal audit systems set forth in Section II.B of the Interagency Guidelines

Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness, appendix A to 12 C.F.R. Part 30. Refer to the

“Internal and External Audits” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook for related safe and sound

principles. The Internal Audit Program shall incorporate standards of safety and soundness that

are commensurate with the Bank’s size, complexity, scope of activities, and risk profile and

shall, at a minimum, require:

               (a)     the development of an annual risk assessment of the Bank’s auditable

                       areas, with annual documented audit committee approval of the risk

                       assessment;

               (b)     the development of an internal audit plan that is risk-based, supported by

                       the annual risk assessment, and provides adequate audit scope, coverage,

                       and frequency for all areas of the Bank, with annual documented audit

                       committee approval;

               (c)     monthly reporting to the audit committee on any material variance from

                       the plan and action items to get back on schedule; and

               (d)     persons independent of the operational functions perform the audits, and

                       all internal audit reports be in writing and distributed directly, not through




                                                 25
                      any intervening party, to the audit committee in a timely manner after

                      audit completion.

       (3)     Upon adoption of the Internal Audit Program, Bank management, subject to board

review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to

the Internal Audit Program. The board shall review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit

Program at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing.

Any amendment to the Internal Audit Program must be submitted to the ADC within thirty (30)

days of board approval.

                                          ARTICLE XV

                          GENERAL BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

        (1)     The board shall ensure that the Bank has timely adopted and implemented all

corrective actions required by this Order, and shall verify that the Bank adheres to the corrective

actions and they are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies that resulted in this Order.

       (2)      In each instance in which this Order imposes responsibilities upon the board, it is

intended to mean that the board shall:

               (a)    authorize, direct, and adopt corrective actions on behalf of the Bank as

                      may be necessary to perform the obligations and undertakings imposed on

                      the board by this Order;

               (b)    ensure the Bank has sufficient processes, management, personnel, control

                      systems, and corporate and risk governance to implement and adhere to all

                      provisions of this Order;

               (c)    require that Bank management and personnel have sufficient training and

                      authority to execute their duties and responsibilities pertaining to or




                                                  26
             resulting from this Order;

      (d)    hold Bank management and personnel accountable for executing their

             duties and responsibilities pertaining to or resulting from this Order;

      (e)    require appropriate, adequate, and timely reporting to the board by Bank

             management of corrective actions directed by the board to be taken under

             the terms of this Order; and

      (f)    address any noncompliance with corrective actions in a timely and

             appropriate manner.

                               ARTICLE XVI

                                   WAIVERS

(1)   The Bank, by executing and consenting to this Order, waives:

      (a)    any and all rights to the issuance of a Notice of Charges pursuant to

             12 U.S.C. § 1818;

      (b)    any and all procedural rights available in connection with the issuance of

             this Order;

      (c)    any and all rights to a hearing and a final agency decision pursuant to

             12 U.S.C. § 1818 and 12 C.F.R. Part 109;

      (d)    any and all rights to seek any type of administrative or judicial review of

             this Order;

      (e)    any and all claims for fees, costs, or expenses against the OCC, or any of

             its officers, employees, or agents related in any way to this enforcement

             matter or this Order, whether arising under common law or under the

             terms of any statute, including, but not limited to, the Equal Access to




                                       27
                       Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 and 28 U.S.C. § 2412;

               (f)     any and all rights to assert these proceedings, the consent to and/or the

                       issuance of this Order, as the basis for a claim of double jeopardy in any

                       pending or future proceedings brought by the United States Department of

                       Justice or any other governmental entity; and

               (g)     any and all rights to challenge or contest the validity of this Order.

                                         ARTICLE XVII

                                     OTHER PROVISIONS

       (1)     As a result of this Order, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 5.51(c)(7)(ii), the Bank is in

“troubled condition,” and is not an “eligible savings association” for purposes of 12 C.F.R. § 5.3,

unless otherwise informed in writing by the OCC.

       (2)     This Order supersedes all prior OCC communications issued pursuant to 12

C.F.R. §§ 5.3 and 5.51(c)(7)(ii).

                                        ARTICLE XVIII

                                            CLOSING

        (1)     This Order is a settlement of the cease and desist proceedings against the Bank

contemplated by the OCC, based on the unsafe or unsound practices described in the

Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order. The OCC releases and discharges

the Bank from all potential liability for a cease and desist order that has been or might have

been asserted by the OCC based on the practices described in Article II of this Order, to the

extent known to the OCC as of the effective date of this Order. The OCC expressly reserves its

right to assess civil money penalties or take other enforcement actions if the OCC determines

that the Bank has continued, or failed to correct, the practices described in Article II of this




                                                 28
Order or that the Bank otherwise is violating or has violated this Order. These actions could

include additional requirements and restrictions, such as:

               (a)    requirements that the Bank make or increase investments, acquire or hold

                      additional capital or liquidity, or simplify or reduce its operations; or

               (b)    restrictions on the Bank’s growth, business activities, or payment of

                      dividends.

       (2)     Nothing in this Order shall prevent the OCC from:

               (a)    instituting enforcement actions other than a cease and desist order against

                      the Bank based on the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this

                      Order;

               (b)    instituting enforcement actions against the Bank based on any other

                      findings, including if the OCC determines that the Bank has continued, or

                      failed to correct, the practices described in Article II of this Order or that

                      the Bank otherwise is violating or has violated this Order;

               (c)    instituting enforcement actions against institution-affiliated parties (as

                      defined by 12 U.S.C. § 1813(u)) based on the Comptroller’s Findings set

                      forth in Article II of this Order, or any other findings; or

               (d)    utilizing the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order in

                      future enforcement actions against the Bank or its institution-affiliated

                      parties to establish a pattern or the continuation of a pattern.

       (3)     Nothing in this Order is a release, discharge, compromise, settlement, dismissal,

or resolution of any actions, or in any way affects any actions that may be or have been brought

by any other representative of the United States or an agency thereof, including, without




                                                29
limitation, the United States Department of Justice.

        (4)    This Order is:

               (a)    a “cease-and-desist order issued upon consent” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(b);

               (b)    a “cease-and-desist order which has become final” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(e);

               (c)    an “order issued with the consent of the depository institution” within the

                      meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(h)(2);

               (d)    an “effective and outstanding . . . order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

                      § 1818(i)(1); and

               (e)    a “final order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(i)(2) and (u).

        (5)     This Order is effective upon its issuance by the OCC, through the Comptroller’s

duly authorized representative. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all references to

“days” in this Order shall mean calendar days and the computation of any period of time

imposed by this Order shall not include the date of the act or event that commences the period of

time.

        (6)     The provisions of this Order shall remain effective except to the extent that, and

until such time as, such provisions are amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by

the OCC, through the Comptroller’s duly authorized representative. If the Bank seeks an

extension, amendment, suspension, waiver, or termination of any provision of this Order, the

board or a board-designee shall submit a written request to the ADC asking for the desired relief.

Any request submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall include a statement setting forth in detail

the circumstances that warrant the desired relief or prevent the Bank from complying with the




                                                30
relevant provision(s) of the Order, and shall be accompanied by relevant supporting

documentation. The OCC’s decision concerning a request submitted pursuant to this paragraph,

which will be communicated to the board in writing, is final and not subject to further review.

       (7)      The Bank will not be deemed to be in compliance with this Order until it has

adopted, implemented, and adhered to all of the corrective actions set forth in each Article of this

Order; the corrective actions are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies; and the OCC

has verified and validated the corrective actions. An assessment of the effectiveness of the

corrective actions requires sufficient passage of time for the Bank to demonstrate the sustained

effectiveness of the corrective actions.

       (8)      This Order is not a contract binding on the United States, the United States

Treasury Department, the OCC, or any officer, employee, or agent of the OCC and neither the

Bank nor the OCC intends this Order to be a contract.

       (9)      Each citation, issuance, or guidance referenced in this Order includes any

subsequent citation, issuance, or guidance that replaces, supersedes, amends, or revises the

referenced cited citation, issuance, or guidance.

       (10)     This Order applies to the Bank and all its subsidiaries.

       (11)     No separate promise or inducement of any kind has been made by the OCC, or

by its officers, employees, or agents, to cause or induce the Bank to consent to the issuance of

this Order.

       (12)    All reports, plans, or programs submitted to the OCC pursuant to this Order shall

be forwarded through the OCC’s secure portal with an email notification to the ADC.

       (13)    The terms of this Order, including this paragraph, are not subject to amendment or

modification by any extraneous expression, prior agreements, or prior arrangements between the




                                                    31
parties, whether oral or written.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, authorized by the Comptroller as his duly

authorized representative, has hereunto set his signature on behalf of the Comptroller.



 //s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 2023.10.31

 Victor A. Osorio                                                  Date
 Assistant Deputy Comptroller
 Louisville Office


IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, as the duly elected and acting Board of

Directors of United Fidelity Bank, FSB, have hereunto set their signatures on behalf of the Bank.


/s/                                                                  10/20/2023
 Paul E. Becker                                                     Date


 /s/                                                                10/31/23
 Ron Brown                                                          Date


 /s/                                                                10/31/23
 Bruce A. Cordingley                                                Date


 /s/                                                                10-31-23
 Donald R. Neel                                                     Date


 /s/                                                                10/31/23
 Sean O’ Connor                                                     Date


 /s/                                                                10/20/23
 Stephen R. Oettinger                                               Date


 /s/                                                                10/30/23
 Gerald K. Pedigo                                                   Date


                                                32
/s/                         10/24/2023
Barry Schnakenburg          Date


/s/                         10-20-23
James J. Sullos, Jr.        Date




                       33
