                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                         DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
                 OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY


In the Matter of:                                               )
                                                                )
42 North Private Bank                                           )          AA-ENF-2024-110
Canton, Massachusetts                                           )
                                                                )
                                       CONSENT ORDER

       WHEREAS, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) has supervisory

authority over 42 North Private Bank, Canton, Massachusetts (“Bank”);

       WHEREAS, the Bank (at the time, named Admirals Bank) consented to the issuance of a

Consent Order on March 30, 2017, AA-EC-2016-93 (“2017 Order”), for unsafe or unsound

banking practices related to credit administration, liquidity, earnings, and information

technology;

       WHEREAS, the OCC has determined that the Bank has attained compliance with some,

but not all articles of the 2017 Order, and that new unsafe or unsound practices exist;

       WHEREAS, the OCC intends to initiate cease-and-desist proceedings against the Bank

pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), through the issuance of a Notice of Charges, for engaging in

unsafe or unsound practices, including those relating to interest rate risk, strategic planning,

capital, liquidity, and earnings;

       WHEREAS, in the interest of cooperation and to avoid additional costs associated with

administrative and judicial proceedings with respect to the above matter, the Bank, by and

through its duly elected and acting Board of Directors (“Board”), consents to the issuance of this

Consent Order (“Order”), which is intended to replace and supersede the 2017 Order and has

been amended to address the Bank’s new, remaining, and continuing unsafe or unsound



                                                  1
practices, by the OCC through the duly authorized representative of the Comptroller of the

Currency (“Comptroller”);

        NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority vested in the OCC by Section 8(b) of

the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), the OCC hereby orders

that:

                                             ARTICLE I

                                          JURISDICTION

        (1)      The Bank is an “insured depository institution” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(c)(2).

        (2)      The Bank is a Federal savings association within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

§ 1813(q)(1)(C), and is chartered and examined by the OCC. See 12 U.S.C. §§ 1461 et seq.,

5412(b)(2)(B).

        (3)      The OCC is the “appropriate Federal banking agency” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(q) and is therefore authorized to initiate and maintain this cease-and-desist

action against the Bank pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b).

                                             ARTICLE II

                                 COMPTROLLER’S FINDINGS

        The Comptroller finds, and the Bank neither admits nor denies, the following:

        (1)      The Bank has not attained compliance with the 2017 Order; and

        (2)      The Bank is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices, including those relating to

interest rate risk, strategic planning, capital, liquidity, and earnings.




                                                    2
                                           ARTICLE III

                                  COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

        (1)     The Board shall maintain a Compliance Committee of at least three (3) members,

of which a majority shall be directors who are not employees or officers of the Bank or any of its

subsidiaries or affiliates. The Board shall submit in writing to the Director for Special

Supervision (“Director”) the names of the members of the Compliance Committee within ten

(10) days of the date of this Order. In the event of a change of the membership, the Board shall

submit in writing to the Director within ten (10) days the name of any new or resigning

committee member. The Compliance Committee shall monitor and oversee the Bank’s

compliance with the provisions of this Order. The Compliance Committee shall meet at least

monthly and maintain minutes of its meetings.

        (2)     By February 15, 2025, and monthly thereafter or within such other time period as

the Director requires in writing, the Compliance Committee shall submit to the Board a written

progress report setting forth in detail:

                (a)     a description of the corrective action needed to achieve compliance with

                        each Article of this Order;

                (b)     the specific corrective actions undertaken to comply with each Article of

                        this Order; and

                (c)     the results and status of the corrective actions.

        (3)     Upon receiving each written progress report, the Board shall forward a copy of

the report, with any additional comments by the Board, to the Director within ten (10) days of

the first Board meeting following the Board’s receipt of such report.




                                                   3
                                                ARTICLE IV

                                            STRATEGIC PLAN

       (1)     By February 15, 2025, the Board shall submit to the Director for review and prior

written determination of no supervisory objection an acceptable revised written strategic plan for

the Bank, covering at least a three-year period (“Strategic Plan”). The Strategic Plan shall

establish objectives for the Bank’s overall risk profile, earnings performance, growth, liability

structure, and capital and liquidity adequacy, together with strategies to achieve those objectives,

and shall, at a minimum, include:

               (a)     a mission statement that forms the framework for the establishment of

                       strategic goals and objectives;

               (b)     the strategic goals and objectives to be accomplished, including key

                       financial indicators, risk tolerances, and realistic strategies to improve the

                       overall condition of the Bank;

               (c)     a risk profile that evaluates credit, interest rate, liquidity, price,

                       operational, compliance, strategic, and reputation risks in relationship to

                       capital and earnings;

               (d)     an assessment of the Bank’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and

                       threats that impact its strategic goals and objectives;

               (e)     an evaluation of the Bank’s internal operations, staffing requirements,

                       board and management information systems, policies, and procedures for

                       their adequacy and contribution to the accomplishment of the strategic

                       goals and objectives developed under paragraph (1)(b) of this Article;

               (f)     a management employment and succession plan designed to promote



                                                   4
      adequate staffing and continuity of capable management;

(g)   a realistic and comprehensive budget that corresponds to the Strategic

      Plan’s goals and objectives;

(h)   an action plan to improve and sustain the Bank’s earnings and accomplish

      identified strategic goals and objectives. The action plan shall include, at a

      minimum, a strategy for identification of the major areas in which and

      means to improve the Bank’s operating performance by:

             (i)     performing a line-by-line review of non-interest expenses;

             (ii)    developing a plan to improve non-interest income while

                     complying with applicable consumer compliance laws and

                     regulations;

             (iii)   analyzing the Bank’s use of technology and online presence

                     to generate customers and revenue; and

             (iv)    analyzing executive and overall compensation;

(i)   a financial forecast to include projections for significant balance sheet and

      income statement accounts and desired financial ratios over the period

      covered by the Strategic Plan;

(j)   specific plans for the maintenance of adequate capital that may in no event

      be less than the requirements of Article V;

(k)   a detailed description and assessment of major capital expenditures

      required to achieve the goals and objectives of the Strategic Plan;

(l)   an identification and prioritization of initiatives and opportunities,

      including timeframes that comply with the requirements of this Order;



                                 5
               (m)     a description of the Bank’s target market(s), competitive factors in its

                       identified target market(s), and controls systems to mitigate risks in the

                       Bank’s target market(s);

               (n)     an identification and assessment of the present and planned product lines

                       (assets and liabilities) and the identification of appropriate risk

                       management systems to identify, measure, monitor, and control risks

                       within the product lines;

               (o)     concentration limits commensurate with the Bank’s strategic goals and

                       objectives and risk profile;

               (p)     assigned roles, responsibilities, and accountability for the strategic

                       planning process; and

               (q)     a description of systems and metrics designed to monitor the Bank’s

                       progress in meeting the Strategic Plan’s goals and objectives.

       (2)     If the Strategic Plan under paragraph (1) of this Article includes a proposed sale

or merger of the Bank, the Strategic Plan shall, at a minimum, address the steps that will be taken

and the associated timeline to effect the implementation of that alternative.

       (3)     Within thirty (30) days following the Board’s receipt of the Director’s written

determination of no supervisory objection to the revised Strategic Plan or to any subsequent

update or amendment to the Strategic Plan, the Board shall adopt and Bank management, subject

to Board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure

adherence to the Strategic Plan. The Board shall review the effectiveness of the Strategic Plan

and update the Strategic Plan to cover the next three-year period at least annually, and more

frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing. The Board shall amend the Strategic



                                                   6
Plan as needed or directed by the OCC. Any update or amendment to the Strategic Plan must be

submitted to the Director for review and prior written determination of no supervisory objection.

       (4)     Until the Strategic Plan required under this Article has been submitted by the

Bank for the Director’s review, has received a written determination of no supervisory objection

from the Director, and has been adopted by the Board, the Bank shall not significantly deviate

from the products, services, asset composition and size, funding sources, structure, operations,

policies, procedures, and markets of the Bank that existed immediately before the effective date

of this Order without first obtaining the Director’s prior written determination of no supervisory

objection to such significant deviation.

       (5)     The Bank may not initiate any action that significantly deviates from a Strategic

Plan (that has received written determination of no supervisory objection from the Director and

has been adopted by the Board) without a prior written determination of no supervisory objection

from the Director.

       (6)     Any request by the Bank for prior written determination of no supervisory

objection to a significant deviation described in paragraphs (4) or (5) of this Article shall be

submitted in writing to the Director at least thirty (30) days in advance of the proposed

significant deviation. Such written request by the Bank shall include an assessment of the effects

of such proposed change on the Bank’s condition and risk profile, including a profitability

analysis and an evaluation of the adequacy of the Bank’s organizational structure, staffing,

management information systems, internal controls, and written policies and procedures to

identify, measure, monitor, and control the risks associated with the proposed change.

       (7)     For the purposes of this Article, changes that may constitute a significant

deviation include, but are not limited to, a change in the Bank’s markets, marketing strategies,



                                                  7
products and services, marketing partners, underwriting practices and standards, credit

administration, account management, collection strategies or operations, fee structure or pricing,

accounting processes and practices, asset composition and size, or funding strategy, any of

which, alone or in the aggregate, may have a material effect on the Bank’s operations or financial

performance; or any other changes in personnel, operations, or external factors that may have a

material effect on the Bank’s operations or financial performance.

        (8)       Within thirty (30) days after the end of each quarter, a written evaluation of the

Bank’s performance against the Strategic Plan shall be prepared by Bank management and

submitted to the Board. Within thirty (30) days after submission of the evaluation, the Board

shall review the evaluation and determine the corrective actions the Board will require Bank

management to take to address any identified shortcomings. The Board’s review of the

evaluation and discussion of any required corrective actions to address any identified

shortcomings shall be documented in the Board’s meeting minutes. Upon completion of the

Board’s review, the Board shall submit to the Director a copy of the evaluation as well as a

detailed description of the corrective actions the Board will require the Bank to take to address

any identified shortcomings.

                                                 ARTICLE V

                           CAPITAL PLAN AND HIGHER MINIMUMS

        (1)       The Bank shall achieve by July 1, 2025, and thereafter maintain the following

minimum capital ratios as defined in 12 C.F.R. § 3.10(b) and as calculated in accordance with 12

C.F.R. Part 31:



1
  For purposes of the capital conservation buffer set forth at 12 C.F.R. § 3.11, the Bank’s minimum total capital
ratio, minimum tier 1 capital ratio, and minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio requirements are deemed to be
those that are set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 3.10.

                                                        8
                 (a)      a tier 1 capital ratio at least equal to nine percent (9%); and

                 (b)      a total capital ratio at least equal to thirteen percent (13%).

         (2)     Notwithstanding any election to use the community bank leverage ratio (“CBLR”)

framework under 12 C.F.R. § 3.12, the Bank is subject to the minimum capital levels prescribed

in paragraph (1) of this Article pursuant to the OCC’s authority to impose affirmative corrective

actions pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b)(6). If the Bank elects to use the CBLR framework, it

must demonstrate compliance with the minimum capital levels prescribed in paragraph (1) of this

Article by completing Schedule RC-R to the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income in

accordance with the instructions for Banks that have not made the CBLR framework election in

addition to Schedule RC-R, CBLR.

         (3)     The requirement in this Order to maintain a specific capital level for any capital

measure means that the Bank may not be deemed to be “well capitalized” for purposes of

12 U.S.C. § 1831o and 12 C.F.R. Part 6, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 6.4.2

         (4)     By February 15, 2025, the Board shall adopt an effective internal capital planning

process to assess the Bank’s capital adequacy in relation to its overall risks and to ensure

maintenance of appropriate capital levels, which shall in no event be less than the requirements

of paragraph (1) of this Article. Thereafter, management shall implement, and the Board shall

verify, no less than annually, adherence to the capital planning process. The capital planning

process shall be consistent with safe and sound practices and ensure the integrity, objectivity, and

consistency of the process through adequate governance. Refer to the “Capital and Dividends”

booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook. The Board shall document the initial capital planning




2
 The Bank may not solicit, accept, renew, or roll over any brokered deposit (as defined in 12 C.F.R. § 337.6(a)(2))
except in compliance with the applicable restrictions of 12 U.S.C. § 1831f and 12 C.F.R. § 337.6.

                                                         9
process and thereafter review and document the capital planning process at least annually or

more frequently, if appropriate, or required by the Director in writing.

       (5)     By February 15, 2025, the Board shall submit to the Director for review and prior

written determination of no supervisory objection an acceptable revised written capital plan for

the Bank, consistent with the Strategic Plan required by Article IV, covering at least a three-year

period (“Capital Plan”). Refer to “Capital and Dividends” booklet of the Comptroller’s

Handbook.

       (6)     The Bank’s Capital Plan shall, at a minimum:

               (a)     include specific plans for the achievement and maintenance of adequate

                       capital, which shall in no event be less than the requirements of paragraph

                       (1) of this Article;

               (b)     identify and evaluate all material risks;

               (c)     determine the Bank’s capital needs in relation to material risks and

                       strategic direction;

               (d)     identify and establish a strategy to strengthen capital and establish a

                       contingency capital plan commensurate with the Bank’s overall risk and

                       complexity;

               (e)     include detailed quarterly financial projections which shall be consistent

                       with the Strategic Plan required by Article IV; and

               (f)     include specific plans detailing how the Bank will comply with restrictions

                       or requirements set forth in this Order that will have an impact on the

                       Bank’s capital.

       (7)     The Bank may declare or pay a dividend or make a capital distribution only:



                                                 10
               (a)     when the Bank is in compliance with its Board-approved Capital Plan and

                       would remain in compliance with such Capital Plan immediately

                       following the declaration or payment of any dividend or capital

                       distribution;

               (b)     when the dividend or capital distribution would comply with 12 U.S.C.

                       § 1831o(d)(1) and 12 C.F.R. §§ 3.11(a)(4) and 5.55; and

               (c)     following the Director’s prior written determination of no supervisory

                       objection to the dividend or capital distribution.

       (8)     The Bank shall not pay any directors’ fees unless the Bank is in compliance with

the minimum capital ratios identified in paragraph (1) of this Article and would remain in

compliance with those ratios immediately following the payment of directors’ fees.

       (9)     Within thirty (30) days following receipt of the Director’s written determination

of no supervisory objection to the Bank’s Capital Plan or to any subsequent amendment to the

Capital Plan, the Board shall adopt and Bank management, subject to Board review and ongoing

monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the Capital Plan.

The Board shall review the effectiveness of the Capital Plan at least annually, no later than

January 31 each year, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing, and

amend the Capital Plan as needed or directed by the OCC. Any amendment to the Capital Plan

must be submitted to the Director for review and prior written determination of no supervisory

objection.

       (10)    At least monthly, the Board shall review financial reports and earnings analyses

that evaluate the Bank’s performance against the goals and objectives established in the Capital

Plan, as well as the Bank’s written explanation of significant differences between the actual and



                                                 11
projected balance sheet, income statement, and expense accounts, including a description of any

extraordinary and/or nonrecurring items. This review shall include a description of the actions

the Board and management will take to address any deficiencies. At least quarterly, management

shall prepare, and the Board shall review, a written evaluation of the Bank’s performance against

the Capital Plan, which shall include a description of the actions the Board and management will

take to address any deficiencies. The Board’s quarterly reviews and quarterly written evaluations

shall be documented in the Board meeting minutes. The Board shall forward a copy of these

monthly reviews and quarterly written evaluations and Board meeting minutes to the Director

within ten (10) days of completion of its monthly reviews and quarterly written evaluations,

respectively.

       (11)     If the Bank fails to achieve and maintain the capital ratios required by paragraph

(1) of this Article, or fails to submit a Capital Plan as required by paragraph (5) of this Article, or

fails to implement a Capital Plan to which the Director has provided a written determination of

no supervisory objection, then the Bank may, in the Director’s sole discretion, be deemed

undercapitalized for purposes of this Order. Following written notification from the Director that

the Bank is deemed undercapitalized for purposes of this Order, the Bank shall take such

corrective measures as the OCC may direct in writing from among the provisions applicable to

undercapitalized depository institutions under 12 U.S.C. § 1831o(e) and 12 C.F.R. Part 6. For

purposes of this requirement, an action “necessary to carry out the purpose of this section” under

12 U.S.C. § 1831o(e)(5) shall include restoration of the Bank’s capital to the minimum ratios

required by paragraph (1) of this Article, and any other action deemed necessary by the OCC to

address the Bank’s capital deficiency or the safety and soundness of its operations.




                                                  12
                                         ARTICLE VI

                            INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

       (1)     By February 15, 2025, the Board shall adopt a written Interest Rate Risk Program

(“IRR Program”). Refer to the “Interest Rate Risk,” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook;

OCC Bulletin 2010-1, “Interagency Advisory on Interest Rate Risk Management,” (Jan. 2010);

OCC Bulletin 2012-5, “Interest Rate Risk Management: FAQs on 2010 Interagency Advisory on

Interest Rate Risk Management,” (Jan. 2012); and “Model Risk Management,” booklet of the

Comptroller’s Handbook for more information.

       (2)     The IRR Program will also include risk management systems to identify,

measure, monitor, and control interest rate risk (“IRR”), to include at a minimum:

               (a)    requirements for the retention or addition of qualified personnel with

                      sufficient authority and responsibility to manage and monitor IRR;

               (b)    additional and ongoing training for the Board and all personnel involved

                      with the IRR Program or otherwise involved with managing or monitoring

                      IRR;

               (c)    the establishment of formal policies, procedures, and governance

                      commensurate with the Bank’s complexity and business activities, to

                      include:

                      (i)     the establishment of IRR appetite and risk management objectives

                              with specific approved and prohibited strategies for managing IRR;

                      (ii)    standards for measuring and monitoring IRR;

                      (iii)   the frequency of IRR measurement;




                                               13
      (iv)    determinations of how the Bank will measure the quality of IRR

              management; and

      (v)     procedures to monitor, escalate, and address any breaches of

              established IRR limits;

(d)   the establishment of risk monitoring processes to provide sufficient

      information on which to base sound IRR management decisions from both

      an earnings and economic perspective with recognition and consideration

      of all risks (repricing, basis, yield-curve, and options), to include:

      (i)     limits and triggers on IRR exposures that considers the Bank’s risk

              appetite, complexity of operations, earnings performance, liquidity

              position, and capital adequacy; and

      (ii)    IRR reporting standards and procedures that specify the frequency

              and types of reports senior management and the Board will use to

              monitor the Bank’s IRR that address:

              a.      the level and trends of aggregate Bank IRR exposure;

              b.      whether management’s strategies are within the Bank’s

                      established risk appetite and policy;

              c.      the sensitivity of any key assumptions;

              d.      whether the Bank holds sufficient capital for its level of

                      IRR; and

              e.      whether management’s major interest rate strategies

                      balance risk with reward, including at a minimum, an




                                 14
                                    evaluation of a potential adverse rate movement against the

                                    potential rewards of a favorable rate movement;

              (e)    adequate and documented support for the reasonableness of assumptions

                     used in the Bank’s IRR model;

              (f)    periodic review and adjustment, when there are material changes to the

                     Bank’s balance sheet and otherwise, as needed, of the assumptions and

                     inputs used in the Bank’s IRR model, that includes sensitivity analysis and

                     model stress testing, with appropriate documentation and governance that

                     requires approval for changes;

              (g)    procedures that require the Board to review and discuss, on at least a

                     quarterly basis, the model test results required by this Article; and

              (h)    an annual review of the Bank’s adherence to the IRR Program.

       (3)    Upon adoption of the IRR Program, Bank management, subject to Board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the

IRR Program. The Board shall review the effectiveness of the IRR Program at least annually,

and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing, and amend the IRR

Program as needed or directed by the OCC. The Board shall forward a copy of the adopted IRR

program, and any subsequent amendments thereto, to the Director within ten (10) days of

adoption.

                                        ARTICLE VII

                            LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT

       (1)    By February 15, 2025, the Bank shall review, revise, and adopt an acceptable

written Liquidity Risk Management Program (“Liquidity Program”). The Liquidity Program



                                               15
shall provide for the identification, measurement, monitoring, and control of the Bank’s liquidity

risk exposure, and shall emphasize the importance of cash flow projections, diversified funding

sources, a cushion of highly liquid assets, robust liquidity stress testing scenario analyses, and a

formal, well-developed contingency funding plan as primary tools for measuring and managing

liquidity risk. Refer to the “Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk

Management,” dated March 22, 2010, (OCC Bulletin 2010-13); the “Addendum to the

Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management: Importance of

Contingency Funding Plans,” dated July 28, 2023; and the “Liquidity” booklet of the

Comptroller’s Handbook, for more information.

        (2)    In addition to the general requirements set forth above, the Bank’s Liquidity

Program shall, at minimum:

               (a)     include appropriate policies and procedures for identifying, measuring,

                       monitoring, and controlling liquidity risk exposures, that includes at a

                       minimum:

                       (i)     assignment of accountability and processes for monitoring and

                               managing intraday liquidity;

                       (ii)    procedures to ensure that sufficient funds or access to funds exist

                               to meet such cash flow needs under both expected and adverse

                               conditions, including an adequate cushion to meet any

                               unanticipated cash flow needs; and

                       (iii)   procedures and reporting to assess the risks related to deposit

                               runoff, rollovers, wholesale, and alternative funding sources;

               (b)     identify appropriate funding strategies and provide limits to manage and



                                                 16
      control liquidity risk that are commensurate with the Bank’s complexity

      and business activities that considers internal and external factors that

      could affect the Bank’s liquidity, that include at a minimum:

      (i)     minimum levels of highly liquid assets;

      (ii)    minimum levels of committed and collateralized contingent

              funding sources to meet funding needs in both expected and

              adverse conditions, which are periodically tested to verify

              availability and operational capabilities;

      (iii)   limits or triggers on the structure of short-term and long-term

              funding of the Bank’s asset base, under both normal and stressed

              conditions;

      (iv)    limitations on funding concentrations and other strategies to ensure

              diversification of funding sources; and

      (v)     limitations on contingent liabilities in aggregate and by individual

              category;

(c)   provide adequate risk measurement and monitoring systems, including

      processes and reporting to assess, on an ongoing basis, the Bank’s current

      and projected funding needs, including the development of cash flow

      projections under both expected and adverse conditions, and considering

      the changes in depositor behavior, interest rates, and capital levels;

(d)   detail action plans to identify and obtain sources of liquidity, including

      loan sales, investment liquidation and other asset sales, to meet projected

      shortfalls from existing sources; and



                                17
               (e)     require management to prepare, on a monthly basis, liquidity risk

                       management reports that provide sufficient liquidity information over at

                       least a one-year time horizon to enable the Board and Asset Liability

                       Committee to recognize longer-term liquidity needs.

       (3)     Upon adoption of the Liquidity Program, Bank management, subject to Board

review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to

the Liquidity Program and any amendments thereto. The Board shall review the effectiveness of

the Liquidity Program at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the

OCC in writing, and amend the program as needed or directed by the OCC. The Board shall

forward a copy of the adopted Liquidity Program, and any subsequent amendments thereto, to

the Director within ten (10) days of adoption.

                                            ARTICLE VIII

                          GENERAL BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

       (1)      The Board shall ensure that the Bank has timely adopted and implemented all

corrective actions required by this Order, and shall verify that the Bank adheres to the corrective

actions and they are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies that resulted in this Order.

       (2)      In each instance in which this Order imposes responsibilities upon the Board, it

is intended to mean that the Board shall:

               (a)     authorize, direct, and adopt corrective actions on behalf of the Bank as

                       may be necessary to perform the obligations and undertakings imposed on

                       the Board by this Order;




                                                  18
      (b)    ensure the Bank has sufficient processes, management, personnel, control

             systems, and corporate and risk governance to implement and adhere to all

             provisions of this Order;

      (c)    require that Bank management and personnel have sufficient training and

             authority to execute their duties and responsibilities pertaining to or

             resulting from this Order;

      (d)    hold Bank management and personnel accountable for executing their

             duties and responsibilities pertaining to or resulting from this Order;

      (e)    require appropriate, adequate, and timely reporting to the Board by Bank

             management of corrective actions directed by the Board to be taken under

             the terms of this Order; and

      (f)    address any noncompliance with corrective actions in a timely and

             appropriate manner.

                                 ARTICLE IX

                                   WAIVERS

(1)   The Bank, by executing and consenting to this Order, waives:

      (a)    any and all rights to the issuance of a Notice of Charges pursuant to

             12 U.S.C. § 1818;

      (b)    any and all procedural rights available in connection with the issuance of

             this Order;

      (c)    any and all rights to a hearing and a final agency decision pursuant to

             12 U.S.C. § 1818 and 12 C.F.R. Part 109;




                                         19
               (d)     any and all rights to seek any type of administrative or judicial review of

                       this Order;

               (e)     any and all claims for fees, costs, or expenses against the OCC, or any of

                       its officers, employees, or agents related in any way to this enforcement

                       matter or this Order, whether arising under common law or under the

                       terms of any statute, including, but not limited to, the Equal Access to

                       Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 and 28 U.S.C. § 2412;

               (f)     any and all rights to assert these proceedings, the consent to and/or the

                       issuance of this Order, as the basis for a claim of double jeopardy in any

                       pending or future proceedings brought by the United States Department of

                       Justice or any other governmental entity; and

               (g)     any and all rights to challenge or contest the validity of this Order.

                                           ARTICLE X

                                       OTHER PROVISIONS

       (1)     As a result of this Order, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 5.51(c)(7)(ii), the Bank is in

“troubled condition,” and is not an “eligible savings association” for purposes of 12 C.F.R. § 5.3

unless otherwise informed in writing by the OCC.

       (2)     This Order supersedes all prior OCC communications issued pursuant to

12 C.F.R. §§ 5.3 and 5.51(c)(7)(ii).

                                          ARTICLE XI

                                            CLOSING

       (1)     This Order is a settlement of the cease-and-desist proceedings against the Bank

contemplated by the OCC, based on the unsafe or unsound practices described in the



                                                 20
Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order. The OCC releases and discharges the

Bank from all potential liability for a cease-and-desist order that has been or might have been

asserted by the OCC based on the practices described in Article II of this Order, to the extent

known to the OCC as of the effective date of this Order. The OCC expressly reserves its right to

assess civil money penalties or take other enforcement actions if the OCC determines that the

Bank has continued, or failed to correct, the practices described in Article II of this Order or that

the Bank otherwise is violating or has violated this Order.

       (2)     Nothing in this Order shall prevent the OCC from:

               (a)     instituting enforcement actions other than a cease-and-desist order against

                       the Bank based on the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this

                       Order;

               (b)     instituting enforcement actions against the Bank based on any other

                       findings, including if the OCC determines that the Bank has continued, or

                       failed to correct, the practices described in Article II of this Order or that

                       the Bank otherwise is violating or has violated this Order;

               (c)     instituting enforcement actions against institution-affiliated parties (as

                       defined by 12 U.S.C. § 1813(u)) based on the Comptroller’s Findings set

                       forth in Article II of this Order, or any other findings; or

               (d)     utilizing the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order in

                       future enforcement actions against the Bank or its institution-affiliated

                       parties to establish a pattern or the continuation of a pattern.

       (3)     Nothing in this Order is a release, discharge, compromise, settlement, dismissal,

or resolution of any actions, or in any way affects any actions that may be or have been brought



                                                 21
by any other representative of the United States or an agency thereof, including, without

limitation, the United States Department of Justice.

        (4)    This Order is:

               (a)     a “cease-and-desist order issued upon consent” within the meaning of

                       12 U.S.C. § 1818(b);

               (b)     a “cease-and-desist order which has become final” within the meaning of

                       12 U.S.C. § 1818(e);

               (c)     an “order issued with the consent of the depository institution” within the

                       meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(h)(2);

               (d)     an “effective and outstanding . . . order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

                       § 1818(i)(1); and

               (e)     a “final order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(i)(2) and (u).

        (5)     This Order is effective upon its issuance by the OCC, through the Comptroller’s

duly authorized representative. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all references to

“days” in this Order shall mean calendar days and the computation of any period of time

imposed by this Order shall not include the date of the act or event that commences the period of

time.

        (6)     The provisions of this Order shall remain effective except to the extent that, and

until such time as, such provisions are amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by

the OCC, through the Comptroller’s duly authorized representative. If the Bank seeks an

extension, amendment, suspension, waiver, or termination of any provision of this Order, the

Board or a Board-designee shall submit a written request to the Director asking for the desired

relief. Any request submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall include a statement setting forth in



                                                22
detail the circumstances that warrant the desired relief or prevent the Bank from complying with

the relevant provision(s) of the Order, and shall be accompanied by relevant supporting

documentation. The OCC’s decision concerning a request submitted pursuant to this paragraph,

which will be communicated to the Board in writing, is final and not subject to further review.

       (7)      The Bank will not be deemed to be in compliance with this Order until it has

adopted, implemented, and adhered to all of the corrective actions set forth in each Article of this

Order; the corrective actions are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies; and the OCC

has verified and validated the corrective actions. An assessment of the effectiveness of the

corrective actions requires sufficient passage of time for the Bank to demonstrate the sustained

effectiveness of the corrective actions.

       (8)      This Order is not a contract binding on the United States, the United States

Treasury Department, the OCC, or any officer, employee, or agent of the OCC and neither the

Bank nor the OCC intends this Order to be a contract.

       (9)      Each citation, issuance, or guidance referenced in this Order includes any

subsequent citation, issuance, or guidance that replaces, supersedes, amends, or revises the

referenced cited citation, issuance, or guidance.

       (10)     No separate promise or inducement of any kind has been made by the OCC, or

by its officers, employees, or agents, to cause or induce the Bank to consent to the issuance of

this Order.

       (11)    All reports, plans, or programs submitted to the OCC pursuant to this Order shall

be forwarded via email to the Director.




                                                    23
       (12)    The terms of this Order, including this paragraph, are not subject to amendment or

modification by any extraneous expression, prior agreements, or prior arrangements between the

parties, whether oral or written.




IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, authorized by the Comptroller as his duly

authorized representative, has hereunto set her signature on behalf of the Comptroller.

/s/                                                                 1/30/2025

 Julie A. Thieman                                                  Date
 Director for Special Supervision
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency




                                                24
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, as the duly elected and acting Board of

Directors of 42 North Private Bank have hereunto set their signatures on behalf of the Bank.


/s/                                                                1/30/25

 Brian Barefoot                                                    Date

 /s/                                                               2/2/25

 Churchill G. Franklin                                             Date

 /s/                                                               1/30/25

 Seth A. Kurland                                                   Date

 /s/                                                               1/30/25

 Hope W. Lundt                                                     Date

 /s/                                                               1/30/25

 Rocco Maggiotto                                                   Date

 /s/                                                               1/30/25

 Jack Thompson                                                     Date

 /s/                                                               1/31/25

 Laura Trust                                                       Date




                                               25
