                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                        DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
                OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY

In the Matter of:                                              )
                                                               )
Eastern National Bank                                          )           AA-EC-2025-04
Miami, Florida                                                 )
                                                               )

                                      CONSENT ORDER

       WHEREAS, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) has supervisory

authority over Eastern National Bank, Miami, Florida (“Bank”);

       WHEREAS, the Bank consented to the issuance of a Consent Order on November 19,

2020, AA-EC-2020-46 (“2020 Order”), for unsafe or unsound banking practices related to the

Bank’s board and management supervision, executive officer and board compensation, enterprise

governance, and for continuing violations of 12 C.F.R. § 21.21;

       WHEREAS, the OCC has determined that the Bank is not in compliance with Article IV

(Capital and Strategic Planning) of the 2020 Order;

       WHEREAS, the OCC intends to initiate cease-and-desist proceedings against the Bank

pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), through the issuance of a Notice of Charges, for engaging in

unsafe or unsound practices, including those relating to strategic and capital planning, earnings,

and board and management supervision; and

       WHEREAS, in the interest of cooperation and to avoid additional costs associated with

administrative and judicial proceedings with respect to the above matter, the Bank, by and

through its duly elected and acting Board of Directors (“Board”), consents to the issuance of this

Consent Order (“Order”), which is intended to replace and supersede the 2020 Order, by the




                                                 1
OCC through the duly authorized representative of the Comptroller of the Currency

(“Comptroller”); and

        NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority vested in the OCC by Section 8(b) of

the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), the OCC hereby orders

that:

                                           ARTICLE I

                                         JURISDICTION

        (1)    The Bank is an “insured depository institution” as that term is defined in

 12 U.S.C. § 1813(c)(2).

        (2)       The Bank is a national banking association within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

 § 1813(q)(1)(A), and is chartered and examined by the OCC. See 12 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.

        (3)    The OCC is the “appropriate Federal banking agency” as that term is defined in

 12 U.S.C. § 1813(q) and is therefore authorized to initiate and maintain this cease and desist

 action against the Bank pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b).

                                           ARTICLE II

                                COMPTROLLER’S FINDINGS

        The Comptroller finds, and the Bank neither admits nor denies, the following:

        (1)    The Bank is in noncompliance with Article IV (Capital and Strategic Planning) of

the 2020 Order;

        and

        (2)    The Bank is engaging and has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, including

those relating to strategic and capital planning, earnings, and board and management supervision.

                                          ARTICLE III



                                                 2
                                COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

         (1)   The Board shall maintain a Compliance Committee of at least three (3) members,

of which a majority shall be directors who are not employees or officers of the Bank or any of its

affiliates or subsidiaries. In the event of a change of the membership, within ten (10) days

thereof, the Board shall submit the name of any new or resigning committee member in writing

to the Director for Special Supervision (“Director”). The Compliance Committee shall be

responsible for monitoring and coordinating the Bank’s adherence to the provisions of this

Order.

         (2)   The Compliance Committee shall meet at least quarterly.

         (3)   Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order and quarterly thereafter, the

Compliance Committee shall submit a written progress report to the Board setting forth in detail:

               (a)     a description of the action needed to achieve compliance with each Article

                       of this Order, Bank personnel responsible for implementing the corrective

                       actions, and timeframes for completion;

               (b)     actions taken to comply with each Article of this Order; and

               (c)     the results and status of those actions.

         (4)   The Board shall forward a copy of the Compliance Committee’s report, with any

additional comments by the Board, on a quarterly basis, to the Director within ten (10) days of

receiving such report or within such other time period as the Director may require in writing.

                                           ARTICLE IV

               MANAGEMENT, STAFFING AND BOARD MEMBERSHIP

         (1)    Within ninety (90) days of the date of this Order, the Board shall adopt a written

management and staffing program (“Staffing Program”) designed to maintain sufficient



                                                  3
effective, qualified management and staff in place on a permanent and full-time basis, and shall

include succession planning. The Staffing Program shall be designed to ensure that the Bank

maintains at a minimum, the positions of Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial

Officer, Chief Lending or Credit Officer and that these positions are vested with sufficient

authority to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of each position, carry out the Board’s policies,

ensure Bank adherence to safe and sound corporate governance and decision-making processes,

ensure Bank compliance with this Order and applicable laws, rules and regulations, and manage

and operate the day-to-day operations of the Bank in a safe and sound manner. The Staffing

Program shall also be designed to ensure that the Bank has defined all essential functions, staffed

those functions, and designated a successor for each position responsible for each essential

function. The Board shall provide the Staffing Program to the Director within five (5) days of

adoption. Thereafter, management shall implement, and the Board shall verify adherence to the

Board’s Staffing Program.

       (2)       Within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the date of this Order, and annually

thereafter, or when requested by the Director in writing, the Board shall review and evaluate the

capabilities of the Bank’s management to perform present and anticipated duties and make a

written determination of whether any management changes are to be made, including the need

for the replacement of, additions to, or any other changes, to management.

       (3)       Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the Board shall adopt a written

Board program designed to ensure the Board has, and thereafter maintains at all times,

membership of no less than five directors, in compliance with 12 C.F.R. § 71a.

       (4)       If the Bank is in troubled condition or is otherwise subject to the prior notice

requirements in 12 C.F.R. § 5.51, and if any senior executive officer position (as defined in 12



                                                   4
C.F.R. § 5.51(c)(4)), is vacant now or in the future, or if the Board has less than five members,

the Board shall within fifteen (15) days of the date of this Order or the date of the future vacancy,

identify an effective, qualified, candidate for the position or Board vacancy. The Board shall

comply with the prior notice requirements of 12 U.S.C. § 1831i and 12 C.F.R. § 5.51 when

selecting an individual to serve in any senior executive officer position or as a member of the

Board.

                                           ARTICLE V

                          CAPITAL AND STRATEGIC PLANNING

          (1)   Effective as of the date of this Order, the Bank shall achieve and thereafter

maintain the following capital ratios as defined in and as calculated in accordance with 12 C.F.R.

Part 3:

                (i)    tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets at least equal to eight (8%); and

                (ii)   total risk-based capital to risk-weighted assets at least equal to eleven

                       percent (11%).

          (2)   Notwithstanding any existing or future election to use the community bank

leverage ratio (“CBLR”) framework under 12 C.F.R § 3.12, the Bank is subject to the minimum

capital levels prescribed in paragraph (1) of this Article pursuant to the OCC’s authority to

impose affirmative corrective actions pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b)(6) and must demonstrate

compliance with these requirements by completing Schedule RC-R to the Consolidated Reports

of Condition and Income in accordance with the instructions for Banks that have not made the

CBLR election in addition to Schedule RC-R, CBLR.

          (3)   The requirement in this Order to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any




                                                  5
capital measure means that the Bank may not be deemed to be “well capitalized” for purposes of

12 U.S.C. § 1831o and 12 C.F.R. Part 6, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 6.4(c)(1)(v).1

        (4)      The Bank may declare or pay a dividend or make a capital distribution only:

                 (a)      when the Bank is in compliance with the minimum capital ratios required

                          by paragraph (1) of this Article, and would remain in compliance

                          immediately following the declaration or payment of any dividend or

                          capital distribution;

                 (b)      when the dividend or capital distribution would comply with 12 U.S.C.

                          §§ 56, 60 and 1831o(d)(1) and 12 C.F.R. § 3.11(a)(4) and all other

                          applicable laws, regulations, and executive orders; and

                 (c)      following the Director’s prior written determination of no supervisory

                          objection to the dividend or capital distribution.

        (5)      The Bank’s capital planning process shall be consistent with safe and sound

practices and ensure the integrity, objectivity, and consistency of the process through adequate

governance. Refer to the “Capital and Dividends” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook. The

Board shall document the initial capital planning process and thereafter review and document the

capital planning process at least annually or more frequently, if appropriate, or if required by the

Director in writing.

        (6)      Within forty-five (45) days of the date of this Order, the Board shall submit to the

Director for review and prior written determination of no supervisory objection, an acceptable

written Capital and Strategic Plan for the Bank, covering at least a two-year period (“Capital and

Strategic Plan”).


1
 The Bank may not solicit, accept, renew, or roll over any brokered deposit (as defined in 12 C.F.R. § 337.6(a)(2))
except in compliance with the applicable restrictions of 12 U.S.C. § 1831f and 12 C.F.R. § 337.6.

                                                         6
       (7)     The Capital and Strategic Plan shall establish a specific plan for the Bank’s sale or

recapitalization, and shall also include the development of objectives for the Bank’s overall risk

profile, financial condition, funding structure, balance sheet composition and capital levels,

together with strategies to achieve those objectives, to include at a minimum:

               (a)     a mission statement that forms the framework for the establishment of

                       strategic goals and objectives;

               (b)     the strategic goals and objectives to be accomplished, including key

                       financial indicators and risk tolerances;

               (c)     an evaluation of Bank personnel compensation, employee stock option

                       plans, and other benefits, including a determination about the cost-

                       effectiveness and impact of such compensation and benefits on the Bank’s

                       efforts to sell or recapitalize;

               (d)     a realistic and comprehensive budget that corresponds to the Capital and

                       Strategic Plan’s goals and objectives;

               (e)     a financial forecast to include projections for major balance sheet and

                       income statement accounts and desired financial ratios over the period

                       covered by the Capital and Strategic Plan;

               (f)     specific plans for the maintenance of adequate capital that may in no event

                       be less than the requirements of paragraph (1) of this Article;

               (g)     a detailed description and assessment of major capital expenditures

                       required to achieve the goals and objectives of the Capital and Strategic

                       Plan;

               (h)     an identification and prioritization of prospects and opportunities,



                                                   7
                       including timeframes to executive a definitive agreement to sell or

                       recapitalize the Bank and comply with the requirements of this Order;

               (i)     assigned roles, responsibilities, and accountability for capital and strategic

                       planning; and

               (j)     a description of systems and metrics designed to monitor the Bank’s

                       progress in meeting the Capital and Strategic Plan’s goals and objectives.

       (8)     The Bank’s written Capital and Strategic Plan shall identify the steps and the

associated timeline to ensure that within one-hundred and eighty (180) days of the receipt of the

Director’s written determination of no supervisory objection to the Capital and Strategic Plan,

the Bank executes a definitive agreement to sell or recapitalize the Bank, through the sale of a

majority of the Bank’s outstanding shares and change in the control of the Bank.

       (9)     Prior to adoption by the Board, a copy of the Capital and Strategic Plan, and any

subsequent amendments, revisions, or updates shall be submitted to the Director for prior written

determination of no supervisory objection. At the next Board meeting following receipt of the

Director’s written determination of no supervisory objection, the Board shall adopt and Bank

management, subject to Board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and

ensure adherence to the Capital and Strategic Plan and any amendments or revisions thereto.

       (10)    Until the Capital and Strategic Plan required under this Article has been submitted

by the Bank for the Director’s review, has received a written determination of no supervisory

objection from the Director and has been adopted by the Board, the Bank shall not significantly

deviate from the products, services, asset composition and size, funding sources, structure,

operations, policies, procedures, and markets of the Bank that existed immediately before the

effective date of this Order without first obtaining the Director’s prior written determination of



                                                 8
no supervisory objection to such significant deviation.

       (11)    The Board shall review the effectiveness of the Capital and Strategic Plan at least

monthly, including its progress toward a sale of the Bank or a majority of its outstanding shares,

and amend the Capital and Strategic Plan as needed or directed by the OCC. The Board shall

provide an assessment of the effectiveness of the Capital and Strategic Plan to the OCC, along

with any proposed amendments within ten (10) days of each month end. Any amendment to the

Capital and Strategic Plan, and any significant deviation from the Capital and Strategic Plan,

must be submitted to the Director for review and prior written determination of no supervisory

objection.

       (12)    If the Bank fails to achieve and maintain the minimum capital requirements in

paragraph (1) of this Article, fails to submit an acceptable written Capital and Strategic Plan as

required by paragraph (6) of this Article, or fails to implement or adhere to a Capital and

Strategic Plan to which the Director has provided a written determination of no supervisory

objection pursuant to paragraph (9) of this Article (this includes but is not limited to, a failure to

implement and adhere to the Capital and Strategic Plan provision for the Bank to execute a

definitive agreement to sell or recapitalize the Bank within the time frame described in paragraph

(8) of this Article), then the Director may, at their discretion, deem the Bank to be

undercapitalized for purposes of this Order and the Bank shall take such corrective measures as

the OCC may direct in writing from among the provisions applicable to undercapitalized

depository institutions under 12 U.S.C. § 1831o(e) and 12 C.F.R. Part 6. For purposes of this

requirement, an action “necessary to carry out the purpose of this section” under 12 U.S.C. §

1831o(e)(5) shall include restoration of the Bank’s Tier 1 capital to the minimum levels required

by this Order, and any other action deemed advisable by the OCC to address the Bank’s capital



                                                   9
deficiency or the safety and soundness of its operations.

       (13)    For any plans or actions taken by the Bank that relate to this Article or otherwise

involve the restoration of capital, Bank management, subject to Board review and monitoring,

shall ensure such plans or actions comply with all laws, regulations, and executive orders, and

that any necessary authorizations are obtained from any relevant Federal government agencies.

                                            ARTICLE VI

                          GENERAL BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

       (1)      The Board shall ensure that the Bank has timely adopted and implemented all

corrective actions required by this Order, and shall verify that the Bank adheres to the corrective

actions and they are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies that resulted in this Order.

       (2)      In each instance in which this Order imposes responsibilities upon the Board, it

is intended to mean that the Board shall:

               (a)     authorize, direct, and adopt corrective actions on behalf of the Bank as

                       may be necessary to perform the obligations and undertakings imposed by

                       this Order;

               (b)     ensure the Bank has sufficient processes, management, personnel, control

                       systems, and corporate and risk governance to implement and adhere to all

                       provisions of this Order;

               (c)     require that Bank management and personnel have sufficient training and

                       authority to execute their duties and responsibilities pertaining to or

                       resulting from this Order;

               (d)     hold Bank management and personnel accountable for executing their

                       duties and responsibilities pertaining to or resulting from this Order;



                                                   10
      (e)    require appropriate, adequate, and timely reporting to the Board by Bank

             management of corrective actions directed by the Board to be taken under

             the terms of this Order; and

      (f)    address any noncompliance with corrective actions in a timely and

             appropriate manner.

                                 ARTICLE VII

                                   WAIVERS

(1)   The Bank, by executing and consenting to this Order, waives:

      (a)    any and all rights to the issuance of a Notice of Charges pursuant to

             12 U.S.C. § 1818;

      (b)    any and all procedural rights available in connection with the issuance of

             this Order;

      (c)    any and all rights to a hearing and a final agency decision pursuant to

             12 U.S.C. § 1818 and 12 C.F.R. Part 19;

      (d)    any and all rights to seek any type of administrative or judicial review of

             this Order;

      (e)    any and all claims for fees, costs, or expenses against the OCC, or any of

             its officers, employees, or agents related in any way to this enforcement

             matter or this Order, whether arising under common law or under the

             terms of any statute, including, but not limited to, the Equal Access to

             Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 and 28 U.S.C. § 2412;

      (f)    any and all rights to assert these proceedings, the consent to and/or the

             issuance of this Order, as the basis for a claim of double jeopardy in any



                                      11
                       pending or future proceedings brought by the United States Department of

                       Justice or any other governmental entity; and

               (g)     any and all rights to challenge or contest the validity of this Order.

                                          ARTICLE VIII

                                     OTHER PROVISIONS

       (1)     As a result of this Order, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 5.51(c)(7)(ii), the Bank is in

“troubled condition,” and is not an “eligible bank” for purposes of 12 C.F.R. § 24.2(e) unless

otherwise informed in writing by the OCC.

       (2)     This Order supersedes all prior OCC communications issued pursuant to

12 C.F.R. §§ 5.3, 5.51(c)(7)(ii), and 24.2(e)(4).

                                           ARTICLE IX

                                             CLOSING

       (1)     This Order is a settlement of the cease and desist proceedings against the Bank

contemplated by the OCC, based on the unsafe or unsound practices described in the

Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order. The OCC releases and discharges the

Bank from all potential liability for a cease and desist order that has been or might have been

asserted by the OCC based on practices described in Article II of this Order, to the extent known

to the OCC as of the effective date of this Order. The OCC expressly reserves its right to assess

civil money penalties or take other enforcement actions if the OCC determines that the Bank has

continued, or failed to correct, the practices described in Article II of this Order or that the Bank

otherwise is violating or has violated this Order.

       (2)     Nothing in this Order shall prevent the OCC from:




                                                    12
               (a)    instituting enforcement actions other than a cease-and-desist order against

                      the Bank based on the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this

                      Order;

               (b)    instituting enforcement actions against the Bank based on any other

                      findings, including if the OCC determines that the Bank has continued, or

                      failed to correct, the practices described in Article II of this Order or that

                      the Bank otherwise is violating or has violated this Order;

               (c)    instituting enforcement actions against institution-affiliated parties (as

                      defined by 12 U.S.C. § 1813(u)) based on the Comptroller’s Findings set

                      forth in Article II of this Order, or any other findings; or

               (d)    utilizing the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order in

                      future enforcement actions against the Bank or its institution-affiliated

                      parties to establish a pattern or the continuation of a pattern.

       (3)     Nothing in this Order is a release, discharge, compromise, settlement, dismissal,

or resolution of any actions, or in any way affects any actions that may be or have been brought

by any other representative of the United States or an agency thereof, including, without

limitation, the United States Department of Justice.

       (4)     This Order is:

               (a)    a “cease-and-desist order issued upon consent” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(b);

               (b)    a “cease-and-desist order which has become final” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(e);




                                                13
               (c)     an “order issued with the consent of the depository institution” within the

                       meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(h)(2);

               (d)     an “effective and outstanding . . . order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

                       § 1818(i)(1); and

               (e)     a “final order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(i)(2) and (u).

        (5)     This Order is effective upon its issuance by the OCC, through the Comptroller’s

duly authorized representative. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all references to

“days” in this Order shall mean calendar days and the computation of any period of time

imposed by this Order shall not include the date of the act or event that commences the period of

time.

        (6)     The provisions of this Order shall remain effective except to the extent that, and

until such time as, such provisions are amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by

the OCC, through the Comptroller’s duly authorized representative. If the Bank seeks an

extension, amendment, suspension, waiver, or termination of any provision of this Order, the

Board or a Board-designee shall submit a written request to the Director asking for the desired

relief. Any request submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall include a statement setting forth in

detail the circumstances that warrant the desired relief or prevent the Bank from complying with

the relevant provision(s) of the Order, and shall be accompanied by relevant supporting

documentation. The OCC’s decision concerning a request submitted pursuant to this paragraph,

which will be communicated to the Board in writing, is final and not subject to further review.

        (7)     The Bank will not be deemed to be in compliance with this Order until it has

adopted, implemented, and adhered to all of the corrective actions set forth in each Article of this

Order; the corrective actions are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies; and the OCC



                                                14
has verified and validated the corrective actions. An assessment of the effectiveness of the

corrective actions requires sufficient passage of time for the Bank to demonstrate the sustained

effectiveness of the corrective actions.

       (8)      This Order is not a contract binding on the United States, the United States

Treasury Department, the OCC, or any officer, employee, or agent of the OCC and neither the

Bank nor the OCC intends this Order to be a contract.

       (9)      Each citation, issuance, or guidance referenced in this Order includes any

subsequent citation, issuance, or guidance that replaces, supersedes, amends, or revises the

referenced cited citation, issuance, or guidance.

       (10)     No separate promise or inducement of any kind has been made by the OCC, or

by its officers, employees, or agents, to cause or induce the Bank to consent to the issuance of

this Order.

        (11)    All reports, plans, or programs submitted to the OCC pursuant to this Order shall

be forwarded, by email, to the Director, with a copy to the OCC Examiner in Charge.

       (12)    The terms of this Order, including this paragraph, are not subject to amendment or

modification by any extraneous expression, prior agreements, or prior arrangements between the

parties, whether oral or written.



IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, authorized by the Comptroller as his duly

authorized representative, has hereunto set her signature on behalf of the Comptroller.

//s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 2025.04.24

 Julie A. Thieman
 Director for Special Supervision




                                                    15
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, as the duly elected and acting Board of

Directors of Eastern National Bank, Miami, Florida have hereunto set their signatures on behalf

of the Bank.


 /s/                                                               4/24/2025

 John S. Karansky                                                  Date

 /s/                                                               4/24/2025

 Gustavo Macias                                                    Date

 /s/                                                               4/24/2025

 Keith Parker                                                      Date

 /s/                                                               4/24/2025

 Jaime Ortega                                                      Date

 /s/                                                               4/24/2025

 Rolando Parets                                                    Date

 /s/                                                               4/24/25

 Ricardo Martin                                                   Date




                                               16
