                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                        DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
                OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY


In the Matter of:                                             )
                                                              )
The Federal Savings Bank                                      )           AA-ENF-2025-63
Chicago, Illinois                                             )
                                                              )

                                      CONSENT ORDER

        WHEREAS, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) has supervisory

authority over The Federal Savings Bank, Chicago, Illinois (“Bank”);

        WHEREAS, the OCC intends to initiate cease-and-desist proceedings against the Bank

pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), through the issuance of a Notice of Charges, for violations of

Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (“FTC Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 45(a)(1);

        WHEREAS, in the interest of cooperation and to avoid additional costs associated with

administrative and judicial proceedings with respect to the above matter, the Bank, by and

through its duly elected and acting Board of Directors (“Board”), consents to the issuance of this

Consent Order (“Order”), by the OCC through the duly authorized representative of the

Comptroller of the Currency (“Comptroller”); and

        NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority vested in the OCC by Section 8(b) of

the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), the OCC hereby orders

that:

                                          ARTICLE I

                                        JURISDICTION

        (1)    The Bank is an “insured depository institution” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(c)(2).

                                                1
       (2)       The Bank is a Federal savings association within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

§ 1813(q)(1)(C), and is chartered and examined by the OCC. See 12 U.S.C. §§ 1461 et seq.,

5412(b)(2)(B).

       (3)        The OCC is the “appropriate Federal banking agency” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(q) and is therefore authorized to initiate and maintain this cease-and-desist

action against the Bank pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b).

                                           ARTICLE II

                                 COMPTROLLER’S FINDINGS

       The Comptroller finds, and the Bank neither admits nor denies, the following:

       (1)       Between at least 2022 and 2024 (“relevant period”), the Bank made cash-out

refinance loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”).

       (2)       During the relevant period, the Bank made multiple false or misleading statements

to consumers:

                 (a)    The Bank sent consumers millions of deceptive advertisements that stated

                        the consumer had “available funds” and instructed the consumer to contact

                        the Bank. In reality, the advertisement was a solicitation for a VA cash-out

                        refinance loan and a new loan was required to access the funds.

                 (b)    Certain Bank employees made deceptive statements to consumers

                        indicating that the Bank maintained a special relationship with the VA.

                 (c)    Certain Bank employees made deceptive statements to consumers

                        regarding the terms of the VA cash-out refinance loans that created the

                        impression that the consumer’s interest rate or monthly payment would

                        significantly decrease within a defined time period. However, the cash-out



                                                  2
                        refinance loan was a permanent loan with a fixed interest rate and

                        mortgage payment, and the Bank could not in fact guarantee that the

                        consumers would be able to refinance their loans with the lower interest or

                        monthly payments as stated or implied by Bank employees.

         (3)    The Bank’s deceptive statements induced consumers to obtain VA cash-out

refinance loans, which resulted in certain consumers paying significant origination fees and

receiving refinanced mortgage loans with significantly increased interest rates and monthly

payments.

         (4)    The Bank is taking corrective actions to remedy the deficiencies identified in this

Order.

         (5)    By reason of the foregoing, the Bank has engaged in deceptive acts or practices in

violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a)(1). The Bank was unjustly enriched in

connection with its violations of Section 5 of the FTC Act.

                                            ARTICLE III

                                  COMPLIANCE REPORTING

         (1)    Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, and thereafter within thirty (30)

days after the end of each quarter, the Board shall submit to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller a

written progress report setting forth in detail:

                (a)     a description of the corrective actions needed to achieve compliance with

                        each Article of this Order;

                (b)     the specific corrective actions undertaken to comply with each Article of

                        this Order; and

                (c)     the results and status of the corrective actions.



                                                   3
       (2)     In the event the OCC requires the Bank to revise any of the corrective actions

needed to achieve compliance with each Article of this Order, the Bank shall promptly make

necessary and appropriate revisions and resubmit the corrective actions to the Assistant Deputy

Comptroller.

                                          ARTICLE IV

                                 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

       (1)     The Board shall ensure that the Bank, its officers, employees, and agents

immediately cease and desist engaging in violations of Section 5 of the FTC Act related to VA-

guaranteed mortgage loans. The Board shall ensure that the Bank takes all steps necessary to

eliminate any and all violations of Section 5 of the FTC Act for such products and to ensure

future compliance with the requirements of the FTC Act.

                                          ARTICLE V

               CONSUMER RESTITUTION FOR DECEPTIVE PRACTICES

       (1)     Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the Bank shall submit to the

Assistant Deputy Comptroller, for review and prior written determination of no supervisory

objection, the name, qualifications, and engagement terms of a proposed independent, third-party

consultant (“Restitution Consultant”) to plan and oversee the payment of restitution to eligible

consumers.

       (2)     Within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the OCC’s written determination

of no supervisory objection to a Restitution Consultant, the Bank shall engage the Restitution

Consultant and shall submit to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller, for review and prior written

determination of no supervisory objection, a written methodology prepared by the Restitution

Consultant to identify eligible consumers. The written methodology shall define the scope of the



                                                 4
eligible consumers to be identified by the Restitution Consultant. The written methodology shall

include a proposed timeline for the commencement and the completion of identification of

eligible consumers. The Restitution Consultant shall conduct its review to identify eligible

consumers in accordance with the written methodology following the Bank’s receipt of the

OCC’s written determination of no supervisory objection.

       (3)     Within thirty (30) days of the Restitution Consultant’s completion of its review,

the Restitution Consultant shall provide a written report to the Bank that identifies eligible

consumers. Based upon the results of the Restitution Consultant’s review and written report, the

OCC, at its sole discretion, may direct the Bank to expand the scope of the Restitution

Consultant’s review in terms of the eligible consumers and the time period to be covered.

       (4)     Within sixty (60) days of the date the Restitution Consultant provides a written

report to the Bank that identifies eligible consumers, the Bank shall submit to the Assistant

Deputy Comptroller, for review and prior written determination of no supervisory objection, a

written methodology prepared by the Restitution Consultant to determine the appropriate amount

of restitution and to pay restitution to eligible consumers. The written methodology may consider

any restitution the Bank previously paid to an eligible consumer when determining the

appropriate amount of restitution for that eligible consumer. The written methodology shall

include a proposed timeline for the commencement and completion of restitution of eligible

consumers. The Bank shall pay restitution to eligible consumers in accordance with the written

methodology following its receipt of the OCC’s written determination of no supervisory

objection.

       (5)     Within ninety (90) days of the Bank’s payment of restitution to eligible

consumers, the Restitution Consultant shall review and assess the Bank’s compliance with the



                                                  5
written methodology to pay restitution to eligible consumers. The Restitution Consultant shall

summarize its assessment in a written report that it shall submit to the Board.

                                           ARTICLE VI

                          GENERAL BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

       (1)     The Board shall ensure that the Bank has timely adopted and implemented all

corrective actions required by this Order, and shall verify that the Bank adheres to the corrective

actions and they are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies that resulted in this Order.

The Board shall hold Bank management and personnel accountable for executing their duties and

responsibilities pertaining to or resulting from this Order.

                                           ARTICLE VII

                                            WAIVERS

       (1)     The Bank, by executing and consenting to this Order, waives:

               (a)     any and all rights to the issuance of a Notice of Charges pursuant to

                       12 U.S.C. § 1818;

               (b)     any and all procedural rights available in connection with the issuance of

                       this Order;

               (c)     any and all rights to a hearing and a final agency decision pursuant to

                       12 U.S.C. § 1818 and 12 C.F.R. Part 19;

               (d)     any and all rights to seek any type of administrative or judicial review of

                       this Order;

               (e)     any and all claims for fees, costs, or expenses against the OCC, or any of

                       its officers, employees, or agents related in any way to this enforcement

                       matter or this Order, whether arising under common law or under the



                                                  6
                       terms of any statute, including, but not limited to, the Equal Access to

                       Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 and 28 U.S.C. § 2412;

               (f)     any and all rights to assert these proceedings, the consent to and/or the

                       issuance of this Order, as the basis for a claim of double jeopardy in any

                       pending or future proceedings brought by the United States Department of

                       Justice or any other governmental entity; and

               (g)     any and all rights to challenge or contest the validity of this Order.

                                          ARTICLE VIII

                                     OTHER PROVISIONS

       (1)     As a result of this Order, the Bank is not:

               (a)     precluded from being treated as an “eligible savings association” for the

                       purposes of 12 C.F.R. Part 5, unless the Bank fails to meet any of the

                       requirements contained in subparagraphs (1) – (4) of 12 C.F.R. § 5.3,

                       Definitions, Eligible bank or eligible savings association, or is otherwise

                       informed in writing by the OCC; and

               (b)     subject to the restrictions in 12 C.F.R. § 5.51 requiring prior notice to the

                       OCC of changes in directors and senior executive officers or the

                       limitations on golden parachute payments set forth in 12 C.F.R. Part 359,

                       unless the Bank is otherwise subject to such requirements pursuant to

                       12 C.F.R. § 5.51(c)(7)(i) or (iii).

       (2)     This Order supersedes all prior OCC communications issued pursuant to

12 C.F.R. § 5.3, 5.51(c)(7)(ii).




                                                  7
                                           ARTICLE IX

                                             CLOSING

       (1)     This Order is a settlement of the cease-and-desist proceedings against the Bank

contemplated by the OCC, based on the violations of law described in the Comptroller’s

Findings set forth in Article II of this Order. The OCC releases and discharges the Bank from all

potential liability for a cease-and-desist order that has been or might have been asserted by the

OCC based on the violations described in Article II of this Order, to the extent known to the

OCC as of the effective date of this Order. The OCC expressly reserves its right to assess civil

money penalties or take other enforcement actions if the OCC determines that the Bank has

continued, or failed to correct, the violations described in Article II of this Order or that the Bank

otherwise is violating or has violated this Order.

       (2)     Nothing in this Order shall prevent the OCC from:

               (a)     instituting enforcement actions other than a cease-and-desist order against

                       the Bank based on the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this

                       Order;

               (b)     instituting enforcement actions against the Bank based on any other

                       findings, including if the OCC determines that the Bank has continued, or

                       failed to correct, the violations described in Article II of this Order or that

                       the Bank otherwise is violating or has violated this Order;

               (c)     instituting enforcement actions against institution-affiliated parties (as

                       defined by 12 U.S.C. § 1813(u)) based on the Comptroller’s Findings set

                       forth in Article II of this Order, or any other findings; or




                                                     8
               (d)    utilizing the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order in

                      future enforcement actions against the Bank or its institution-affiliated

                      parties to establish a pattern or the continuation of a pattern.

        (3)    Nothing in this Order is a release, discharge, compromise, settlement, dismissal,

or resolution of any actions, or in any way affects any actions that may be or have been brought

by any other representative of the United States or an agency thereof, including, without

limitation, the United States Department of Justice.

        (4)    This Order is:

               (a)    a “cease-and-desist order issued upon consent” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(b);

               (b)    a “cease-and-desist order which has become final” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(e);

               (c)    an “order issued with the consent of the depository institution” within the

                      meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(h)(2);

               (d)    an “effective and outstanding . . . order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

                      § 1818(i)(1); and

               (e)    a “final order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(i)(2) and (u).

        (5)    This Order is effective upon its issuance by the OCC, through the Comptroller’s

duly authorized representative. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all references to

“days” in this Order shall mean calendar days and the computation of any period of time

imposed by this Order shall not include the date of the act or event that commences the period of

time.




                                                 9
          (6)    The provisions of this Order shall remain effective except to the extent that, and

until such time as, such provisions are amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by

the OCC, through the Comptroller’s duly authorized representative. If the Bank seeks an

extension, amendment, suspension, waiver, or termination of any provision of this Order, the

Board or a Board-designee shall submit a written request to the Deputy Comptroller asking for

the desired relief. Any request submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall include a statement

setting forth in detail the circumstances that warrant the desired relief or prevent the Bank from

complying with the relevant provision(s) of the Order, and shall be accompanied by relevant

supporting documentation. The OCC’s decision concerning a request submitted pursuant to this

paragraph, which will be communicated to the Board in writing, is final and not subject to further

review.

          (7)    The Bank will not be deemed to be in compliance with this Order until it has

adopted, implemented, and adhered to all of the corrective actions set forth in each Article of this

Order.

          (8)    This Order is not a contract binding on the United States, the United States

Treasury Department, the OCC, or any officer, employee, or agent of the OCC and neither the

Bank nor the OCC intends this Order to be a contract.

          (9)    Each citation, issuance, or guidance referenced in this Order includes any

subsequent citation, issuance, or guidance that replaces, supersedes, amends, or revises the

referenced cited citation, issuance, or guidance.

          (10)   No separate promise or inducement of any kind has been made by the OCC, or by

its officers, employees, or agents, to cause or induce the Bank to consent to the issuance of this

Order.



                                                    10
       (11)    All reports, plans, or programs submitted to the OCC pursuant to this Order shall

be forwarded, by overnight mail or via email, to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller, Chicago

Office, with a copy to the Bank’s assigned Portfolio Manager.

       (12)    The terms of this Order, including this paragraph, are not subject to amendment or

modification by any extraneous expression, prior agreements, or prior arrangements between the

parties, whether oral or written.




IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, authorized by the Comptroller as his duly

authorized representative, has hereunto set her signature on behalf of the Comptroller.

//s/// Digitally Signed, Dated 2026.04.02

 Karen Boehler                                                     Date
 Deputy Comptroller
 Community Banks




                                                11
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, as the duly elected and acting Board of

Directors of The Federal Savings Bank have hereunto set their signatures on behalf of the Bank.

       /s/                                                        4/2/2026

 John Calk                                                        Date

      /s/                                                         4/2/2026

 Richard Coffman                                                  Date

      /s/                                                         4/2/2026

 William Giffin                                                   Date

      /s/                                                         4/2/2026

 Charlie Gleichenhaus                                             Date

      /s/                                                         4/2/2026

 Roger Manka                                                      Date

      /s/                                                         4/2/2026

 William Markel                                                   Date

      /s/                                                         4/2/2026

 Viola Meehan                                                     Date

      /s/                                                         4/2/2026

 James Norini                                                     Date

      /s/                                                         4/2/2026

Javier Ubarri                                                     Date




                                               12
