                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                           DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
                   OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY


                                                                 )
    In the Matter of:
                                                                 )
                                                                 )       AA-ENF-2026-29
    United Texas Bank, N.A.
                                                                 )
    Dallas, Texas                                                )

                                         CONSENT ORDER

       WHEREAS, effective June 12, 2026, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

(“OCC”) has supervisory authority over United Texas Bank, Dallas, Texas (“Bank”);

       WHEREAS, prior to June 12, 2026, the Bank was a Texas state-chartered bank,

supervised by the Texas Department of Banking, and a member of the Federal Reserve System;

       WHEREAS, on August 29, 2024, the Bank consented to the issuance of a cease and

desist order under 12 U.S.C. § 1818 and the Texas Banking Act, as amended (Tex. Fine. Code

§ 31 et seq.), with the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the Texas Department of Banking

(the “Agencies”) dated August 29, 2024 (Docket No. 24-021-B-SM, Department Order No.

2024-025) (the “2024 Order”), relating to the Agencies’ findings of significant deficiencies with

its foreign correspondent banking and virtual currency customers.

       WHEREAS, the Bank’s significant deficiencies specifically relate to its risk

management and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations relating to anti-money

laundering (“AML”), including the Bank Secrecy Act (the “BSA”) (31 U.S.C. § 5311 et seq.),

the rules and regulations issued thereunder by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (31 C.F.R.

Chapter X), and the AML requirements of Regulation H of the Board of Governors of the

Federal Reserve System (12 C.F.R. §§ 208.62 and 208.63) (collectively, the “BSA/AML

Requirements”), resulting in a deficient compliance program violation;


                                                   1
        WHEREAS, the 2024 Order required the Bank to improve the Bank’s oversight and

compliance with BSA/AML Requirements and the rules and regulations of the Office of

Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) (31 C.F.R. Chapter V) (the “OFAC Regulations”);

        WHEREAS, on November 12, 2025, the Bank filed an application to convert to a

national bank with the OCC;

        WHEREAS, the OCC approved the Bank’s conversion application on May 15, 2026,

subject to the condition that the Bank, upon consummation of the conversion to a national

chartered institution, enter into a consent order incorporating corrective actions required in the

2024 Order addressing the Bank’s BSA violations;

        WHEREAS, the OCC and the Bank consummated the conversion of the Bank on June

12, 2026;

        WHEREAS, the Bank, by and through its duly elected and acting Board of Directors

(“Board”), consents to the issuance of this Order, by the OCC through the duly authorized

representative of the Comptroller of the Currency (“Comptroller”); and

        NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority vested in the OCC by Section 8(b) of

the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), the OCC hereby orders

that:

                                             Article I

                                        JURISDICTION

        (1)   The Bank is an “insured depository institution” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(c)(2).

        (2)   The Bank is a national banking association within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

§ 1813(q)(1)(A), and is chartered and examined by the OCC. See 12 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.




                                                     2
       (3)     The OCC is the “appropriate Federal banking agency” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(q) and is therefore authorized to initiate and maintain this cease and desist

action against the Bank pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b).

                                               Article II

                                   COMPLIANCE REPORTING

       (1)     Within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar quarter, the Board shall

submit to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller a written progress report setting forth in detail the

specific corrective actions undertaken to comply with each Article of this Order and the status of

the corrective actions.

                                               Article III

                                         BOARD OVERSIGHT

       (1)     Effective as of the date of this Order, Bank management, subject to Board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall continue to implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the plan

approved under the 2024 Order to strengthen Board oversight of the Bank’s compliance with the

BSA, as amended (31 U.S.C. § 5311 et seq.), and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the

rules and regulations of the OCC, and OFAC Regulations, and that includes the following:

               (a)        actions that the Board will take to maintain effective control over and

                          oversight of Bank management’s compliance with the BSA and the OFAC

                          Regulations;

               (b)        measures to ensure noncompliance with the BSA and OFAC Regulations

                          are appropriately tracked, escalated, and reviewed by the Bank’s senior

                          management;




                                                        3
               (c)     measures to ensure that those at the Bank charged with overseeing the

                       Bank’s compliance with BSA/AML Requirements and OFAC Regulations

                       possess appropriate subject matter expertise, stature, and direct reporting

                       access to the Board, or the relevant committee, to carry out such

                       responsibilities; and

               (d)     measures to ensure the Bank has adequate resources for the BSA/AML

                       Requirements and OFAC Regulations, including sufficient staffing levels,

                       and the performance of periodic re-evaluations of resource and staffing

                       needs.

       (2)     The Board shall review the effectiveness of the plan required by paragraph (1) of

this Article at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in

writing, and amend the plan as needed or directed by the OCC.

                                               Article IV

                           BSA/AML COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

       (1)     Effective as of the date of this Order, Bank management, subject to Board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall continue to implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the plan

approved under the 2024 Order, for a revised BSA/AML compliance program to achieve

compliance with the BSA, and that shall include the following:

               (a)     measures to fully address the findings and recommendations in the

                       Agencies’ report of examination that commenced on September 2, 2025;

               (b)     a system of internal controls reasonably designed to ensure ongoing

                       compliance with the BSA;




                                                       4
               (c)     a comprehensive risk assessment that appropriately identifies and

                       considers all products and services of the Bank, customer types,

                       geographic locations, and transaction volumes, as appropriate, in

                       determining inherent and residual risks;

               (d)     enhanced independent testing procedures to ensure that comprehensive

                       reviews of the Bank’s BSA/AML compliance Program are performed on a

                       regular basis by qualified parties who are independent of the Bank’s

                       business lines and compliance function;

               (e)     management of the Bank’s BSA/AML compliance Program by a qualified

                       compliance officer, who is given full autonomy, independence, and

                       responsibility for implementing and maintaining an effective BSA/AML

                       compliance Program that is commensurate with the Bank’s size and risk

                       profile, has meaningful decision-making authority, and is supported by

                       adequate staffing levels and resources; and

               (f)     enhanced policies and procedures to ensure effective training for all

                       personnel, including targeted training for personnel with compliance-

                       related responsibilities, in all aspects of the BSA.

       (2)     The Board shall review the effectiveness of the program required by paragraph (1)

of this Article at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in

writing, and amend the program as needed or directed by the OCC.




                                                      5
                                              Article V

                                 CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE

       (1)    Effective as of the date of this Order, Bank management, subject to Board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall continue to implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the

revised customer due diligence (“CDD”) program approved under the 2024 Order that shall

include the following:

              (a)        policies, procedures, and controls to ensure that the Bank collects,

                         analyzes, and retains complete and accurate customer information for all

                         account holders, including, but not limited to:

                         (i)    documentation necessary to verify the identity, source of wealth,

                                and business activities of the customer; and

                         (ii)   documentation necessary to understand the normal and expected

                                transactions of the customer;

              (b)        a plan, with intermediate timelines and milestones, to remediate deficient

                         due diligence for existing customer accounts;

              (c)        a methodology for assigning risk ratings to customers that considers

                         factors such as type of customer, type of products and services, geographic

                         location, and transaction type and volume;

              (d)        a risk-focused assessment of the Bank's customer base to:

                         (i)    identify the categories of customers whose transactions and

                                banking activities are routine and usual;

                         (ii)   identify the categories of customers that pose a heightened risk of

                                conducting potentially illicit activities at or through the Bank;




                                                       6
                       (iii)   determine the appropriate level of additional due diligence

                               necessary for those categories of customers that pose a heightened

                               risk of conducting potentially illicit activities at or through the

                               Bank, including the level needed to identify any nested financial

                               institution or foreign shell banking activity; and

                       (iv)    procedures to ensure that periodic reviews and evaluations of

                               customer and account information are conducted and documented

                               for all account holders.

       (2)     The Board shall review the effectiveness of the program required by paragraph (1)

of this Article at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in

writing, and amend the program as needed or directed by the OCC.

                                             Article VI

               SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY MONITORING AND REPORTING

       (1)     Effective as of the date of this Order, Bank management, subject to Board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall continue to implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the

revised program approved under the 2024 Order, to reasonably ensure the identification and

timely, accurate, and complete reporting by the Bank of all known or suspected violations of law

or suspicious transactions to law enforcement and supervisory authorities, as required by

applicable suspicious activity reporting laws and regulations, that shall include the following:

               (a)     a well-documented methodology for establishing monitoring rules and

                       processes that take into consideration the Bank’s risk profile, type of

                       customer, type of product or service, geographic location, and banking

                       activities;




                                                       7
(b)   policies and procedures that provide for periodic review of the monitoring

      rules and thresholds;

(c)   enhanced monitoring and investigation criteria and procedures to ensure

      the timely detection, investigation, and reporting of all known or suspected

      violations of law and suspicious transactions, including:

      (i)     effective monitoring of customer accounts and transactions;

      (ii)    appropriate allocation of resources to manage alert and case

              inventory;

      (iii)   adequate escalation of information about potentially suspicious

              activity through appropriate levels of management; and

      (iv)    maintenance of sufficient documentation with respect to the

              investigation and analysis of potentially suspicious activity,

              including the resolution and escalation of concerns;

(d)   policies, procedures, and processes for identifying subjects of law

      enforcement requests, monitoring the transaction activity of those subjects

      when appropriate, identifying unusual or potentially suspicious activity

      related to those subjects, and filing, as appropriate, suspicious activity

      reports related to those subjects;

(e)   measures to ensure that alert dispositions are supported with adequate

      rationale and documentation; and

(f)   controls to ensure that transaction monitoring systems and associated

      processes are subject to periodic reviews and timely updates.




                                     8
       (2)     The Board shall review the effectiveness of the program required by paragraph (1)

of this Article at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in

writing, and amend the program as needed or directed by the OCC.

                                           Article VII

               OFFICE OF FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL COMPLIANCE

       (1)     Effective as of the date of this Order, Bank management, subject to Board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall continue to implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the plan

approved under the 2024 Order to enhance the Bank’s compliance with OFAC Regulations,

including, but not limited to, enhanced OFAC screening procedures, an improved methodology

for assessing OFAC risks, training related to compliance with OFAC Regulations appropriate to

the employee’s job responsibilities that is provided on an ongoing, periodic basis, and enhanced

policies and procedures to ensure compliance with OFAC Regulations.

       (2)     The Board shall review the effectiveness of the program required by paragraph (1)

of this Article at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in

writing, and amend the program as needed or directed by the OCC.

                                           Article VIII

                          GENERAL BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

        (1)     The Board shall ensure that the Bank has timely adopted and implemented all

corrective actions required by this Order, and shall verify that the Bank adheres to the corrective

actions and they are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies that resulted in this Order.

The Board shall hold Bank management and personnel accountable for executing their duties

and responsibilities pertaining to or resulting from this Order.




                                                     9
                                     Article IX

                                     WAIVERS

(1)   The Bank, by executing and consenting to this Order, waives:

      (a)   any and all rights to the issuance of a Notice of Charges pursuant to

            12 U.S.C. § 1818;

      (b)   any and all procedural rights available in connection with the issuance of

            this Order;

      (c)   any and all rights to a hearing and a final agency decision pursuant to

            12 U.S.C. § 1818 and 12 C.F.R. Part 19;

      (d)   any and all rights to seek any type of administrative or judicial review of

            this Order;

      (e)   any and all claims for fees, costs, or expenses against the OCC, or any of

            its officers, employees, or agents related in any way to this enforcement

            matter or this Order, whether arising under common law or under the

            terms of any statute, including, but not limited to, the Equal Access to

            Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 and 28 U.S.C. § 2412;

      (f)   any and all rights to assert these proceedings, the consent to and/or the

            issuance of this Order, as the basis for a claim of double jeopardy in any

            pending or future proceedings brought by the United States Department of

            Justice or any other governmental entity; and

      (g)   any and all rights to challenge or contest the validity of this Order.




                                          10
                                                 Article X

                                                 CLOSING

       (1)     This Order is a settlement of the cease and desist proceedings against the Bank

contemplated by the OCC. The OCC releases and discharges the Bank from all potential liability

for a cease and desist order that has been or might have been asserted by the OCC, to the extent

known to the OCC as of the effective date of this Order. The OCC expressly reserves its right to

assess civil money penalties or take other enforcement actions if the OCC determines that the

Bank fails to correct the violations found in the 2024 Order or that the Bank otherwise is

violating or has violated this Order.

       (2)     Nothing in this Order shall prevent the OCC from:

               (a)     instituting enforcement actions other than a cease and desist order against

                       the Bank that is based on the violations found in the 2024 Order;

               (b)     instituting enforcement actions against the Bank based on any other

                       findings, including if the OCC determines that the Bank has continued, or

                       failed to correct, the violations found in the 2024 Order or that the Bank

                       otherwise is violating or has violated this Order;

               (c)     instituting enforcement actions against institution-affiliated parties (as

                       defined by 12 U.S.C. § 1813(u)) in consideration of the violations found in

                       the 2024 Order or any other findings; or

               (d)     utilizing the violations found in the 2024 Order in future enforcement

                       actions against the Bank or its institution-affiliated parties to establish a

                       pattern or the continuation of a pattern.




                                                      11
        (3)    Nothing in this Order is a release, discharge, compromise, settlement, dismissal,

or resolution of any actions, or in any way affects any actions that may be or have been brought

by any other representative of the United States or an agency thereof, including, without

limitation, the United States Department of Justice.

        (4)    This Order is:

               (a)    a “cease-and-desist order issued upon consent” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(b);

               (b)    a “cease-and-desist order which has become final” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(e);

               (c)    an “order issued with the consent of the depository institution” within the

                      meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(h)(2);

               (d)    an “effective and outstanding . . . order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

                      § 1818(i)(1); and

               (e)    a “final order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(i)(2) and (u).

        (5)    This Order is effective upon its issuance by the OCC, through the Comptroller’s

duly authorized representative. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all references to

“days” in this Order shall mean calendar days and the computation of any period of time

imposed by this Order shall not include the date of the act or event that commences the period of

time.

        (6)    The provisions of this Order shall remain effective except to the extent that, and

until such time as, such provisions are amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by

the OCC, through the Comptroller’s duly authorized representative. If the Bank seeks an

extension, amendment, suspension, waiver, or termination of any provision of this Order, the




                                                       12
Board or a Board-designee shall submit a written request to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller

asking for the desired relief. Any request submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall include a

statement setting forth in detail the circumstances that warrant the desired relief or prevent the

Bank from complying with the relevant provision(s) of the Order, and shall be accompanied by

relevant supporting documentation. The OCC’s decision concerning a request submitted

pursuant to this paragraph, which will be communicated to the Board in writing, is final and not

subject to further review.

         (7)    The Bank will not be deemed to be in compliance with this Order until it has

adopted, implemented, and adhered to all of the corrective actions set forth in each Article of this

Order; the corrective actions are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies; and the OCC

has verified and validated the corrective actions. An assessment of the effectiveness of the

corrective actions requires sufficient passage of time for the Bank to demonstrate the sustained

effectiveness of the corrective actions.

         (8)    This Order is not a contract binding on the United States, the United States

Treasury Department, the OCC, or any officer, employee, or agent of the OCC and neither the

Bank nor the OCC intends this Order to be a contract.

         (9)    Each citation, issuance, or guidance referenced in this Order includes any

subsequent citation, issuance, or guidance that replaces, supersedes, amends, or revises the

referenced cited citation, issuance, or guidance.

         (10)   No separate promise or inducement of any kind has been made by the OCC, or by

its officers, employees, or agents, to cause or induce the Bank to consent to the issuance of this

Order.




                                                     13
       (11)    All reports, plans, or programs submitted to the OCC pursuant to this Order shall

be forwarded by email to Assistant Deputy Comptroller Kimberly Einspahr.

       (12)    The terms of this Order, including this paragraph, are not subject to amendment or

modification by any extraneous expression, prior agreements, or prior arrangements between the

parties, whether oral or written.

        IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, authorized by the Comptroller as his

duly authorized representative, has hereunto set her signature on behalf of the Comptroller.

        //s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 2026.06.16
 Kimberly Einspahr
 Assistant Deputy Comptroller
 Dallas/Ft. Worth Field Office




                                                    14
        IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, as the duly elected and acting Board

of Directors of United Texas Bank, N.A. have hereunto set their signatures on behalf of the

Bank.

//s// Digitally Signed                                            6/15/2026
  Jarrod Beck                                                     Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 Scott Beck                                                       Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 James Huggins                                                    Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 Benjamin Max Green                                               Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 Steve Gundy                                                      Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 Alexander Holmes                                                 Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 Jordan Licht                                                     Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 David O’Hara                                                     Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 Michael Patterson                                                Date


 //s// Digitally Signed                                           6/15/2026
 Reubin Robin                                                     Date




                                                  15
