                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                         DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
                 OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY


In the Matter of:                                                 )
                                                                  )
EH National Bank                                                  )           AA-WE-2025-20
Beverly Hills, California                                         )
                                                                  )
                                        CONSENT ORDER

        WHEREAS, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) has supervisory

authority over EH National Bank, Beverly Hills, California (“Bank”);

        WHEREAS, the OCC determined that the Bank engaged in unsafe or unsound banking

practice(s), including those relating to inadequate capital and strategic planning, inadequate

interest rate risk management, and failure to maintain adequate levels of liquidity and

satisfactory liquidity management practices and the Bank entered into a Formal Agreement with

the OCC dated October 11, 2023, AA-WE-2023-37 (“2023 Agreement”);

        WHEREAS, the OCC intends to initiate cease and desist proceedings against the Bank

pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), through the issuance of a Notice of Charges, for engaging in

unsafe or unsound practice(s), including those relating to management and board supervision,

strategic and capital planning, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, and concentration risk;

        WHEREAS, in the interest of cooperation and to avoid additional costs associated with

administrative and judicial proceedings with respect to the above matter, the Bank, by and

through its duly elected and acting Board of Directors (“Board”), consents to the issuance of this

Consent Order (“Order”), by the OCC through the duly authorized representative of the

Comptroller of the Currency (“Comptroller”);

        WHEREAS, this Order is intended to replace and supersede the 2023 Agreement;


                                                   1
        NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the authority vested in the OCC by Section 8(b) of

the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), the OCC hereby orders

that:

                                            ARTICLE I

                                          JURISDICTION

        (1)    The Bank is an “insured depository institution” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(c)(2).

        (2)    The Bank is a national banking association within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

§ 1813(q)(1)(A), and is chartered and examined by the OCC. See 12 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.

        (3)    The OCC is the “appropriate Federal banking agency” as that term is defined in

12 U.S.C. § 1813(q) and is therefore authorized to initiate and maintain this cease and desist

action against the Bank pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b).

                                            ARTICLE II

                                 COMPTROLLER’S FINDINGS

        The Comptroller finds, and the Bank neither admits nor denies, the following:

        (1)    The Bank’s Board and management have failed to address certain regulatory

concerns outlined in the 2023 Agreement.

        (2)    The Bank has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices regarding management and

board supervision, strategic and capital planning, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, and

concentration risk.




                                                   2
                                             ARTICLE III

                                   COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

        (1)        Effective as of the date of this Order, the Board shall maintain a Compliance

Committee of at least three (3) members, of which a majority shall be directors who are not

employees, officers, or controlling shareholders of the Bank, or family members of any such

person. In the event of a change of the membership, the Board shall submit in writing to the

Assistant Deputy Comptroller within ten (10) days the name of any new or resigning committee

member. The Compliance Committee shall monitor and oversee the Bank’s compliance with the

provisions of this Order. The Compliance Committee shall meet at least quarterly and maintain

minutes of its meetings.

        (2)        By June 13, 2025, and thereafter within 15 (fifteen) days after the end of each

quarter, the Compliance Committee shall submit to the Board a written progress report setting

forth in detail:

                   (a)    a description of the corrective actions needed to achieve compliance with

                          each Article of this Order;

                   (b)    the specific corrective actions undertaken to comply with each Article of

                          this Order; and

                   (c)    the results and status of the corrective actions.

        (3)        Upon receiving each written progress report, the Board shall forward a copy of

the report, with any additional comments by the Board, to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller

within ten (10) days of the first Board meeting following the Board’s receipt of such report.




                                                     3
                                          ARTICLE IV

               BOARD OVERSIGHT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

       (1)    Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the Board shall adopt an

acceptable written program to provide the overall direction, oversight, and corporate governance

of the Bank (“Board Oversight and Corporate Governance Program”). The Board Oversight and

Corporate Governance Program shall, at a minimum, include:

              (a)     the Bank’s risk appetite and risk limits;

              (b)     Board-established strategic goals and objectives supported by analysis and

                      projections;

              (c)     procedures to monitor management’s implementation of Board-established

                      goals and objectives;

              (d)     the retention of, at all times, a qualified Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)

                      and senior management team, including a Chief Financial Officer, Chief

                      Credit Officer, and Chief Risk Officer;

              (e)     a succession plan for the CEO, senior management, and the Board;

              (f)     an effective corporate governance structure for the Bank to ensure that the

                      responsibilities of the Board and senior management are appropriately

                      assigned and documented, that includes detailed written descriptions of:

                      (i)     the Bank’s corporate governance and decision-making processes;

                      (ii)    the Bank’s overall committee structure, as well as individual

                              committee composition and purpose;

                      (iii)   the Bank’s organization chart that clearly reflects areas of

                              responsibility and lines of authority for all officers; and



                                                 4
      (iv)    each officer’s role and responsibilities in the management of the

              Bank’s day-to-day affairs;

(g)   a process to periodically evaluate the Bank’s CEO and senior management

      to determine whether their knowledge and expertise are appropriate for the

      Bank’s strategy, complexity, and risk profile;

(h)   oversight of senior management’s compensation and benefits, to include at

      a minimum:

      (i)     a process for Board review and decisioning for any senior

              management level employment contracts;

      (ii)    verification that senior management receives annual performance

              evaluations and that the results of such reviews, including

              determinations about the achievement of predetermined objectives,

              are considered in the decision about their total compensation and

              benefits;

      (iii)   establishment of compensation and benefits for the CEO that

              considers Board-established goals and objectives; and

      (iv)    annual review to confirm that incentive compensation

              arrangements and aggregate Bank compensation levels are safe and

              sound;

(i)   proper lines of authority, reporting responsibilities, and delegation of

      duties for all officers;

(j)   procedures to ensure the Board receives and reviews sufficient Bank

      information from management (including scope, frequency, and content)



                                 5
                      on the operation of the Bank to enable it to provide proper oversight and

                      fulfill its fiduciary duties and other responsibilities under the law;

              (k)     risk management (including audit) and compliance management systems

                      suitable for the Bank’s size and activities;

              (l)     processes to ensure that management responds to audit, compliance, and

                      regulatory criticisms with a written action plan that contains corrective

                      actions to be taken, deadlines for taking the corrective action, and the

                      individual(s) responsible for making the corrective action; and

              (m)     procedures for the Board to periodically evaluate the size, composition,

                      expertise, and independence of the Board, as well as individual Board

                      member participation and contributions, with additions or other changes to

                      the Board, as appropriate.

Refer to the “Corporate and Risk Governance” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook; and

OCC Bulletin 2020-97, “Corporate and Risk Governance: Revised and New Publications in the

Director’s Toolkit,” (Nov. 2020) for more information.

       (2)    Upon adoption of the Board Oversight and Corporate Governance Program, Bank

management, subject to Board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and

thereafter ensure adherence to the Board Oversight and Corporate Governance Program and any

amendments thereto. The Board shall review the effectiveness of the Board Oversight and

Corporate Governance Programprogram at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if

required by the OCC in writing, and amend the Board Oversight and Corporate Governance

Programprogram as needed or directed by the OCC. The Board shall forward a copy of the




                                                 6
adopted Board Oversight and Corporate Governance Program, and any subsequent amendments

thereto, to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller within five days of adoption.

                                            ARTICLE V

                                       STRATEGIC PLAN

       (1)     Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order the Board shall submit to the

Assistant Deputy Comptroller for review and prior written determination of no supervisory

objection an acceptable revised written strategic plan for the Bank, covering at least a three-year

time period (“Strategic Plan”). The Strategic Plan shall establish objectives for the Bank’s

applicable risks and strategies, including but not limited to overall risk profile, earnings

performance, growth, balance sheet mix, off-balance sheet activities, liability structure, and

capital and liquidity adequacy, together with strategies to achieve those objectives, and shall, at a

minimum, include:

               (a)     an updated assessment of the Bank’s present and future operating

                       environment, including the need for additional capital;

               (b)     the strategic goals and objectives to be accomplished, including key

                       financial indicators and risk tolerances;

               (c)     a detailed assessment of the actions necessary to achieve the Bank’s

                       strategic objectives and goals, as well as processes to measure and monitor

                       progress in meeting all strategic objectives and goals;

               (d)     an evaluation of the Bank's internal operations, staffing requirements,

                       board and management information systems, policies, and procedures for

                       their adequacy and contribution to the accomplishment of the strategic

                       goals and objectives developed under paragraph (1)(b) of this Article;



                                                  7
               (e)     a realistic and comprehensive budget that corresponds to the Strategic

                       Plan’s goals and objectives;

               (f)     an assessment of all risks to earnings and capital (i.e. credit,

                       concentrations, IRR, liquidity, operational, etc.);

               (g)     an action plan to improve and sustain the Bank’s earnings and accomplish

                       identified strategic goals and objectives, and maintain appropriate capital

                       levels;

               (h)     an assessment of the impact to earnings and capital should strategic

                       objectives not be met or need to be reversed; and

               (i)     a description of systems and metrics designed to monitor the Bank’s

                       progress in meeting the Strategic Plan’s goals and objectives.

       (2)     If the Bank’s Strategic Plan contemplates a sale or merger of the Bank, including

a transaction pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 215a-3, the Strategic Plan must include a description of the

strategic objectives and actions the Bank will take assuming a sale or merger transaction is not

consummated.

       (3)     Within fifteen (15) days following receipt of the Assistant Deputy Comptroller’s

written determination of no supervisory objection to the Strategic Plan or to any subsequent

amendment to the Strategic Plan, the Board shall adopt and Bank management, subject to Board

review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to

the Strategic Plan. The Board shall review the effectiveness of the Strategic Plan at least

annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing, and amend the

Strategic Plan as needed or directed by the OCC. Any amendment to the Strategic Plan must be

submitted to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller for review and prior written determination of no



                                                  8
supervisory objection.

       (4)     Until the Strategic Plan required under this Article has been submitted by the

Bank for the Assistant Deputy Comptroller’s review, has received a written determination of no

supervisory objection from the Assistant Deputy Comptroller, and has been adopted by the

Board, the Bank shall not significantly deviate from the products, services, asset composition and

size, funding sources, structure, operations, policies, procedures, and markets of the Bank that

existed immediately before the effective date of this Order without first obtaining the Assistant

Deputy Comptroller’s prior written determination of no supervisory objection to such significant

deviation.

       (5)     The Bank may not initiate any action that significantly deviates from a Strategic

Plan (that has received written determination of no supervisory objection from the Assistant

Deputy Comptroller and has been adopted by the Board) without a prior written determination of

no supervisory objection from the Assistant Deputy Comptroller.

       (6)     Any request by the Bank for prior written determination of no supervisory

objection to a significant deviation described in paragraphs (4) or (5) of this Article shall be

submitted in writing to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller at least forty-five (45) days in advance

of the proposed significant deviation. Such written request by the Bank shall include an

assessment of the effects of such proposed change on the Bank’s condition and risk profile,

including a profitability analysis and an evaluation of the adequacy of the Bank’s organizational

structure, staffing, management information systems, internal controls, and written policies and

procedures to identify, measure, monitor, and control the risks associated with the proposed

change.

       (7)     For the purposes of this Article, changes that may constitute a significant



                                                  9
deviation include, but are not limited to, a change in the Bank’s marketing strategies, products

and services, marketing partners, underwriting practices and standards, credit administration,

account management, collection strategies or operations, fee structure or pricing, accounting

processes and practices, or funding strategy, any of which, alone or in the aggregate, may have a

material effect on the Bank’s operations or financial performance; or any other changes in

personnel, operations, or external factors that may have a material effect on the Bank’s

operations or financial performance.

        (8)      At least monthly, a written evaluation of the Bank’s performance against the

Strategic Plan shall be prepared by Bank management and submitted to the Board. Within five

(5) days after submission of the evaluation, the Board shall review the evaluation and determine

the corrective actions the Board will require Bank management to take to address any identified

shortcomings. The Board’s review of the evaluation and discussion of any required corrective

actions to address any identified shortcomings shall be documented in the Board’s meeting

minutes. Upon completion of the Board’s review, the Board shall submit to the Assistant Deputy

Comptroller a copy of the evaluation as well as a detailed description of the corrective actions

the Board will require the Bank to take to address any identified shortcomings.

                                                ARTICLE VI

                           CAPITAL PLAN AND HIGHER MINIMUMS

        (1)      The Bank shall achieve by June 30, 2025 and thereafter maintain the following

minimum capital ratios as defined in 12 C.F.R. § 3.10(b) and as calculated in accordance with

12 C.F.R. Part 3:1



1
  For purposes of the capital conservation buffer set forth at 12 C.F.R. § 3.11, the Bank’s minimum total capital
ratio, minimum tier 1 capital ratio, and minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio requirements are deemed to be
those that are set forth in 12 C.F.R. § 3.10.

                                                        10
                 (a)      a leverage ratio at least equal to ten percent (10%); and

                 (b)      a total capital ratio at least equal to twelve percent (12%).

        (2)      Notwithstanding any election to use the community bank leverage ratio (“CBLR”)

framework under 12 C.F.R. § 3.12, the Bank is subject to the minimum capital levels prescribed

in paragraph (1) of this Article pursuant to the OCC’s authority to impose affirmative corrective

actions pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b)(6). If the Bank elects to use the CBLR framework, it

must demonstrate compliance with the minimum capital levels prescribed in paragraph (1) of this

Article by completing Schedule RC-R to the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income in

accordance with the instructions for Banks that have not made the CBLR framework election in

addition to Schedule RC-R, CBLR.

        (3)      The requirement in this Order to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any

capital measure means that the Bank may not be deemed to be “well capitalized” for purposes of

12 U.S.C. § 1831o and 12 C.F.R. Part 6, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 6.4.2

        (4)      Effective as of the date of this Order, the Board shall adopt an effective internal

capital planning process to assess the Bank’s capital adequacy in relation to its overall risks and

to ensure maintenance of appropriate capital levels, which shall in no event be less than the

requirements of paragraph (1) of this Article. Thereafter, management shall implement, and the

Board shall verify, no less than annually, adherence to the capital planning process. The capital

planning process shall be consistent with safe and sound practices and ensure the integrity,

objectivity, and consistency of the process through adequate governance. Refer to the “Capital

and Dividends” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook for more information. The Board shall

document the initial capital planning process and thereafter review and document the capital


2
 The Bank may not solicit, accept, renew, or roll over any brokered deposit (as defined in 12 C.F.R. § 337.6(a)(2))
except in compliance with the applicable restrictions of 12 U.S.C. § 1831f and 12 C.F.R. § 337.6.

                                                        11
planning process at least annually or more frequently, if appropriate, or required by the Assistant

Deputy Comptroller in writing.

       (5)     Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the Board shall submit to the

Assistant Deputy Comptroller for review and prior written determination of no supervisory

objection an acceptable revised written capital plan for the Bank, consistent with the Strategic

Plan required by Article V, covering at least a three year period] (“Capital Plan”). Refer to

“Capital and Dividends” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook for more information.

       (6)     Except as provided in paragraph (7) of this Article, the Capital Plan shall, at a

minimum:

               (a)     include specific plans for the achievement and maintenance of adequate

                       capital, which shall in no event be less than the requirements of paragraph

                       (1) of this Article;

               (b)     identify and evaluate all material risks;

               (c)     determine the Bank’s capital needs in relation to material risks and

                       strategic direction consistent with the Strategic Plan required by Article V;

               (d)     incorporate the results of the Bank’s stress testing activities into the capital

                       planning process;

               (e)     identify and establish a strategy to maintain capital and strengthen capital

                       if necessary and establish a contingency or back-up capital plan

                       commensurate with the Bank’s overall risk and complexity;

               (f)    include triggering event(s) that would require management to implement

                       capital plan strategies or conduct further due diligence;




                                                 12
               (g)     include detailed quarterly financial projections which shall be consistent

                       with the Strategic Plan required by Article V;

               (h)     include systems to monitor the Bank’s progress in meeting the Capital

                       Plan’s goals and objectives; and

               (i)     include specific plans detailing how the Bank will comply with restrictions

                       or requirements set forth in this Order that will have an impact on the

                       Bank’s capital.

       (7)     If the Capital Plan outlines a sale or merger of the Bank, including a transaction

pursuant to 12 U.S.C. § 215a-3, the Capital Plan shall, at a minimum, address the steps and the

associated timeline to ensure that within ten (10) days after the receipt of the Assistant Deputy

Comptroller’s written determination of no supervisory objection to the Capital Plan, a definitive

agreement for the sale or merger is executed.

       (8)     The Bank may declare or pay a dividend or make a capital distribution only:

               (a)     when the Bank is in compliance with the Capital Plan and would remain in

                       compliance with such Capital Plan immediately following the declaration

                       or payment of any dividend or capital distribution;

               (b)     when the dividend or capital distribution would comply with 12 U.S.C.

                       §§ 56, 60 and 1831o(d)(1) and 12 C.F.R. § 3.11(a)(4); and

               (c)     following the Assistant Deputy Comptroller’s prior written determination

                       of no supervisory objection to the dividend or capital distribution.

       (9)     Within ten (10) days following receipt of the Assistant Deputy Comptroller’s

written determination of no supervisory objection to the Capital Plan or to any subsequent

amendment to the Capital Plan, the Board shall adopt and Bank management, subject to Board



                                                13
review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to

the Capital Plan. The Board shall review the effectiveness of the Capital Plan at least annually,

no later than January 31 each year, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in

writing, and amend the Capital Plan as needed or directed by the OCC. Any amendment to the

Capital Plan must be submitted to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller for review and prior written

determination of no supervisory objection.

       (10)    At least monthly, the Board shall review financial reports and earnings analyses

that evaluate the Bank’s performance against the goals and objectives established in the Capital

Plan, as well as the Bank’s written explanation of significant differences between the actual and

projected balance sheet, income statement, and expense accounts, including a description of any

extraordinary and/or nonrecurring items. This review shall include a description of the actions

the Board and management will take to address any deficiencies. At least quarterly, management

shall prepare, and the Board shall review, a written evaluation of the Bank’s performance against

the Capital Plan, which shall include a description of the actions the Board and management will

take to address any deficiencies. The Board’s monthly reviews and quarterly written evaluations

shall be documented in the Board meeting minutes. The Board shall retain a copy of these

monthly reviews and Board meeting minutes and shall forward a copy of these quarterly written

evaluations and Board meeting minutes to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller within ten (10) days

of completion of its quarterly written evaluations

       (11)    If the Bank fails to achieve and maintain the capital ratios required by paragraph

(1) of this Article, fails to submit a Capital Plan as required by paragraph (5) of this Article, or

fails to implement a Capital Plan to which the Assistant Deputy Comptroller has provided a

written determination of no supervisory objection, then the Bank shall take such corrective



                                                  14
measures as the OCC may direct in writing from among the provisions under 12 U.S.C.

§§ 1831o(e) and (f)(2) without regard to the Bank’s capital category. For purposes of this

requirement, an action “necessary to carry out the purpose of this section” under 12 U.S.C.

§ 1831o(e)(5) shall include restoration of the Bank’s capital to the minimum ratios required by

paragraph (1) of this Article, and any other action deemed necessary by the OCC to address the

Bank’s capital deficiency or the safety and soundness of its operations.

                                         ARTICLE VII

                             LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT

       (1)     Within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, the Board shall adopt an

acceptable written Liquidity Risk Management Program (“Liquidity Program”) for the Bank,

covering at least a three-year period. The Liquidity Program shall provide for the identification,

measurement, monitoring, and control of the Bank’s liquidity risk exposure, and shall emphasize

the importance of cash flow projections, diversified funding sources, a cushion of highly liquid

assets, robust liquidity stress testing scenario analyses, and a formal, well-developed contingency

funding plan (“CFP”) as primary tools for measuring and managing liquidity risk. Refer to the

“Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk management,” dated March 22,

2010, (OCC Bulletin 2010-13); the “Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding

and Liquidity Risk Management: Importance of Contingency Funding Plans,” dated July 28,

2023; and the “Liquidity” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook for more information.

       (2)     In addition to the general requirements set forth above, the Liquidity Program

shall, at a minimum:




                                                15
(a)   provide specific assigned accountability for development, execution and

      oversight of liquidity risk management, including oversight by both the

      Board and senior management;

(b)   establish Board approved minimum liquidity ratios;

(c)   include appropriate strategies, policies, procedures, and limits to manage

      liquidity risk, commensurate with the Bank’s complexity and business

      activities;

(d)   assess, on an ongoing basis, the Bank’s current and projected funding

      needs, including the development of cash flow projections under both

      expected and adverse conditions;

(e)   ensure that sufficient funds or access to funds exist to meet those needs

      under both expected and adverse conditions;

(f)   assess the risks related to brokered deposit restrictions, deposit runoff, or

      rollovers;

(g)   the Bank must update the liquidity stress testing to include, at a minimum:

      (i)     asset quality deterioration, credit and concentration risk stress

              scenarios that may impact the allowance for credit losses (ACL),

              cash flows and liquidity funds management; and

      (ii)    quantify the impact on earnings and capital caused by changes in

              the Bank’s liquidity position and the additional interest expenses

              from the use of higher-cost and contingent funding sources;

(h)   the Bank must expand, and the Asset Liability Committee (“ALCO”) must

      approve the CFP to include, at a minimum:



                                16
                      (i)     a clear differentiation between short-term and long-term responses

                              to stress scenarios and detail corresponding liquidity sources; and

                      (ii)    an identification of the short-term and long-term sources of

                              liquidity by availability, timing and in chronological order;

               (i)    include a CFP that incorporates, at a minimum:

                      (i)     the identification of plausible stress events relating to internal and

                              external events or circumstances, including systemic or market

                              events, that could lead to a Bank liquidity crisis;

                      (ii)    determinations of how each identified stress event will affect the

                              Bank’s ability to meet funding needs under different levels of

                              severity;

                      (iii)   a quantitative projection and evaluation of expected funding needs

                              and funding capacity based on realistic assessments of the

                              behaviors of funding providers during stress events; and

                      (iv)    provision for management processes, reporting, and internal as

                              well as external communication throughout the stress event.

       (3)     Upon adoption of the written Liquidity Program, Bank management shall

immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the Liquidity Program and any

amendments thereto, subject to Board review and ongoing monitoring. The Board shall review

the effectiveness of the Liquidity Program at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or

if required by the OCC in writing, and amend the Liquidity Program as needed or directed by the

OCC. The Board shall forward a copy of the adopted Liquidity Program, and any subsequent

amendments thereto, to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller within ten (10) days of adoption.



                                                17
                                        ARTICLE VIII

                            INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT


       (1)     Within sixty (60) days of the date of this Order, the Bank shall adopt an

acceptable written Interest Rate Risk Program (“IRR Program”). Refer to the “Interest Rate

Risk” booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook, OCC Bulletin 2010-1,“Interagency Advisory on

Interest Rate Risk Management” (Jan. 2010); OCC Bulletin 2012-5, “Interest Rate Risk

Management: FAQs on 2010 Interagency Advisory on Interest Rate Risk Management” (Jan.

2012); and OCC Bulletin 2011-12 (“Sound Practices for Model Risk Management: Supervisory

Guidance on Model Risk Management”) (Apr. 2011) for more information.

       (2)     The IRR Program shall include risk management systems to identify, measure,

monitor, and control interest rate risk (“IRR”), to include at a minimum:

               (a)    the establishment of formal policies, procedures, and governance

                      commensurate with the Bank’s complexity and business activities, to

                      include:

                      (i)     the establishment of IRR appetite and risk management objectives

                              with specific approved and prohibited strategies for managing IRR;

                      (ii)    standards for measuring and monitoring IRR;

                      (iii)   the frequency of IRR measurement;

                      (iv)    determinations of how the Bank will measure the quality of IRR

                              management; and

                      (v)     procedures to monitor, escalate, and address any breaches of

                              established IRR limits;




                                                18
(b)   accurate and timely risk identification which identify and quantify the

      major sources and types of IRR;

(c)   IRR measurement systems that are not dependent on just one measurement

      system for estimating the Bank’s IRR exposure that, at a minimum,

      estimates the Bank’s short-term and long-term IRR exposure;

(d)   the establishment of risk monitoring processes to provide sufficient

      information on which to base sound IRR management decisions from both

      an earnings and economic perspective with recognition and consideration

      of all risks (repricing, basis, yield-curve, and options), to include:

      (i)     limits and triggers on IRR exposures that considers the Bank’s risk

              appetite, complexity of operations, earnings performance, liquidity

              position, and capital adequacy; and

      (ii)    IRR reporting standards and procedures that specify the frequency

              and types of reports senior management and the Board will use to

              monitor the Bank’s IRR that address:

              a.      the level and trends of aggregate Bank IRR exposure;

              b.      whether management’s strategies are within the Bank’s

                      established risk appetite and policy;

              c.      the sensitivity of any key assumptions;

              d.      whether the Bank holds sufficient capital for its level of

                      IRR; and

              e.      whether management’s major interest rate strategies

                      balance risk with reward, including at a minimum, an



                                 19
                      evaluation of a potential adverse rate movement against the

                      potential rewards of a favorable rate movement;

(e)   requirements for retention of qualified personnel with sufficient authority

      and responsibility to manage and monitor IRR, which may include

      additional training or the addition of qualified staff;

(f)   the establishment of controls over the impact of changes in interest rates

      on liquid asset valuations, including but not limited to, thresholds or

      triggers in asset valuation declines with specific action(s) to be taken by

      the Bank to ensure it maintains sufficient access to asset-based and

      liability-based liquidity to meet funding needs in both expected and

      adverse conditions, to include at a minimum, rapidly rising interest rate

      scenarios;

(g)   an immediate evaluation and corrective action (as well as ongoing

      procedures) to ensure the Bank properly operates its IRR model;

(h)   adequate and documented support for the reasonableness of assumptions

      used in the Bank’s IRR model;

(i)   periodic review and adjustment, when there are material changes to the

      Bank’s balance sheet and otherwise, as needed, of the assumptions and

      inputs used in the Bank’s IRR model, that includes sensitivity analysis and

      model stress testing, with appropriate documentation and governance that

      requires approval for changes;




                                20
               (j)    independent validation of the Bank’s IRR model and processes when there

                      are material changes to the Bank’s balance sheet and otherwise, as needed,

                      but in no event, less than on an annual basis;

               (k)    procedures to test the Bank’s IRR model to compare, reconcile, and report

                      actual performance to simulated results;

               (l)    procedures that require the Board to review and discuss, on at least a

                      quarterly basis, the model test results required by this Article;

               (m)    oversight by a senior manager who is sufficiently trained and

                      knowledgeable about managing interest rate risk; and

               (n)    an annual review of the Bank’s adherence to the IRR Program.

       (3)     Upon adoption of the IRR Program, Bank management, subject to Board review

and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure adherence to the

IRR Program and any amendments thereto. The Board shall review the effectiveness of the IRR

Program at least annually, and more frequently if necessary or if required by the OCC in writing,

and amend the IRR Program as needed or directed by the OCC. The Board shall forward a copy

of the adopted IRR Program, and any subsequent amendments thereto, to the Assistant Deputy

Comptroller within ten (10) days of adoption.

                                         ARTICLE IX

                        CONCENTRATION RISK MANAGEMENT

       (1)     Within sixty (60) days of the date of this Order, the Board shall adopt an

acceptable written Concentration Risk Management Program (“Concentration Program”). Refer

to the “Concentrations of Credit” booklet of the Comptroller's Handbook for more information.




                                                21
For purposes of this Article, a concentration of credit is defined in the “Concentrations of Credit”

booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook.

       (2)     The Concentration Program shall include, at a minimum:

               (a)     identification of the Bank’s known and potential concentrations of credit

                       including, but not limited to, the Bank’s concentration in commercial real

                       estate, including non-owners occupied and multifamily loans, which were

                       identified in the most recent examination of the Bank;

               (b)     identification of the Bank’s deposit-related concentrations;

               (c)     a written analysis of all concentrations that identifies and assesses inherent

                       credit, liquidity, and interest rate risks as applicable; considers the impact

                       of concentration levels on overall growth plans, financial targets, portfolio

                       stress tests, and capital plan objectives; and confirms all concentration

                       limits are consistent with the Board’s risk tolerance based on current

                       market conditions, the declining capital base, and results of the most

                       recent stress test results;

               (d)     the establishment of safe and sound, formal limits and sub-limits for all

                       concentrations of credit based on a percentage of Tier 1 capital plus the

                       allowance for credit losses, stratified by loan type, locality of the borrower

                       and/or collateral, and other meaningful measures;

               (e)     The establishment of safe and sound, formal limits for deposit

                       concentrations;

               (f)     development and implementation of action plans, approved by the Board,

                       to reduce credit and deposit concentrations to conform to the established



                                                     22
      limits set in subparagraph (d) of this Article, including strategies and

      procedures when concentrations approach or exceed Board-approved

      limits;

(g)   management information systems that ensure timely and accurate

      reporting of concentrations to the Board including concentration reports

      that stratify the loan portfolio by type, locality, and other meaningful

      measures and procedures for monitoring concentration reports monthly

      based upon total committed amounts relative to Board-approved limits;

(h)   portfolio-level stress tests to quantify the impact of changes to portfolio-

      specific characteristics and market conditions on earnings and capital,

      consistent with the size, complexity, and risk profile of the concentration;

(i)   annual re-evaluation and approval of concentration limits by the Board,

      and a Board policy that requires a detailed analysis of the most recent

      stress testing results and written support of any proposed change(s)

      demonstrating the credit, liquidity or interest rate risk that will result from

      the change(s); and

(j)   a detailed contingency plan to reduce or mitigate concentration risk in the

      event of adverse CRE market conditions or when limits are breached

      because of declining capital, including reasonable action plans, including,

      but not limited to, revise underwriting parameters, cease lending, or

      pursue loan sales. The Board must also establish a risk tolerance for

      selling loans at a discount based on market conditions.




                                23
       (3)     Upon adoption of the Concentration Program, Bank management, subject to

Board review and ongoing monitoring, shall immediately implement and thereafter ensure

adherence to the Concentration Program and any amendments thereto. The Board shall review

the effectiveness of the Concentration Program at least annually, and more frequently if

necessary or if required by the OCC in writing, and amend the Concentration Program as needed

or directed by the OCC. The Board shall forward a copy of the adopted Concentration Program,

and any subsequent amendments thereto, to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller within ten (10)

days of adoption.

                                               ARTICLE X

                              GENERAL BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

       (1)     The Board shall ensure that the Bank has timely adopted and implemented all

corrective actions required by this Order, and shall verify that the Bank adheres to the corrective

actions and they are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies that resulted in this Order.

       (2)     In each instance in which this Order imposes responsibilities upon the Board, it is

intended to mean that the Board shall:

               (a)     authorize, direct, and adopt corrective actions on behalf of the Bank as

                       may be necessary to perform the obligations and undertakings imposed on

                       the Board by this Order;

               (b)     ensure the Bank has sufficient processes, management, personnel, control

                       systems, and corporate and risk governance to implement and adhere to all

                       provisions of this Order;




                                                   24
      (c)    require that Bank management and personnel have sufficient training and

             authority to execute their duties and responsibilities pertaining to or

             resulting from this Order;

      (d)    hold Bank management and personnel accountable for executing their

             duties and responsibilities pertaining to or resulting from this Order;

      (e)    require appropriate, adequate, and timely reporting to the Board by Bank

             management of corrective actions directed by the Board to be taken under

             the terms of this Order; and

      (f)    address any noncompliance with corrective actions in a timely and

             appropriate manner.

                                 ARTICLE XI

                                   WAIVERS

(1)   The Bank, by executing and consenting to this Order, waives:

      (a)    any and all rights to the issuance of a Notice of Charges pursuant to

             12 U.S.C. § 1818;

      (b)    any and all procedural rights available in connection with the issuance of

             this Order;

      (c)    any and all rights to a hearing and a final agency decision pursuant to

             12 U.S.C. § 1818 and 12 C.F.R. Part 19;

      (d)    any and all rights to seek any type of administrative or judicial review of

             this Order;

      (e)    any and all claims for fees, costs, or expenses against the OCC, or any of

             its officers, employees, or agents related in any way to this enforcement



                                       25
                       matter or this Order, whether arising under common law or under the

                       terms of any statute, including, but not limited to, the Equal Access to

                       Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. § 504 and 28 U.S.C. § 2412;

               (f)     any and all rights to assert these proceedings, the consent to and/or the

                       issuance of this Order, as the basis for a claim of double jeopardy in any

                       pending or future proceedings brought by the United States Department of

                       Justice or any other governmental entity; and

               (g)     any and all rights to challenge or contest the validity of this Order.

                                          ARTICLE XII

                                     OTHER PROVISIONS

       (1)     As a result of this Order, pursuant to 12 C.F.R. § 5.51(c)(7)(ii), the Bank is in

“troubled condition,” and is not an eligible bank for purposes of 12 C.F.R. § 5.3, unless

otherwise informed in writing by the OCC.

       (2)     This Order supersedes all prior OCC communications issued pursuant to

12 C.F.R. §§ 5.3, 5.51(c)(7)(ii), and 24.2(e)(4).

                                         ARTICLE XIII

                                            CLOSING

       (1)     This Order is a settlement of the cease and desist proceedings against the Bank

contemplated by the OCC, based on the unsafe or unsound practices described in the

Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order. The OCC releases and discharges the

Bank from all potential liability for a cease and desist order that has been or might have been

asserted by the OCC based on the practices described in Article II of this Order, to the extent

known to the OCC as of the effective date of this Order. The OCC expressly reserves its right to



                                                    26
assess civil money penalties or take other enforcement actions if the OCC determines that the

Bank has continued, or failed to correct, the practices described in Article II of this Order or that

the Bank otherwise is violating or has violated this Order. These actions could include additional

requirements and restrictions, such as: (a) requirements that the Bank make or increase

investments, acquire or hold additional capital or liquidity, or simplify or reduce its operations,

or (b) restrictions on the Bank’s growth, business activities, or payment of dividends.

       (2)     Nothing in this Order shall prevent the OCC from:

               (a)     instituting enforcement actions other than a cease and desist order against

                       the Bank based on the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this

                       Order;

               (b)     instituting enforcement actions against the Bank based on any other

                       findings, including if the OCC determines that the Bank has continued, or

                       failed to correct, the practices described in Article II of this Order or that

                       the Bank otherwise is violating or has violated this Order;

               (c)     instituting enforcement actions against institution-affiliated parties (as

                       defined by 12 U.S.C. § 1813(u)) based on the Comptroller’s Findings set

                       forth in Article II of this Order, or any other findings; or

               (d)     utilizing the Comptroller’s Findings set forth in Article II of this Order in

                       future enforcement actions against the Bank or its institution-affiliated

                       parties to establish a pattern or the continuation of a pattern.

       (3)     Nothing in this Order is a release, discharge, compromise, settlement, dismissal,

or resolution of any actions, or in any way affects any actions that may be or have been brought




                                                 27
by any other representative of the United States or an agency thereof, including, without

limitation, the United States Department of Justice.

        (4)    This Order is:

               (a)    a “cease-and-desist order issued upon consent” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(b);

               (b)    a “cease-and-desist order which has become final” within the meaning of

                      12 U.S.C. § 1818(e);

               (c)    an “order issued with the consent of the depository institution” within the

                      meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(h)(2);

               (d)    an “effective and outstanding . . . order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.

                      § 1818(i)(1); and

               (e)    a “final order” within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. § 1818(i)(2) and (u).

        (5)    This Order is effective upon its issuance by the OCC, through the Comptroller’s

duly authorized representative. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all references to

“days” in this Order shall mean calendar days and the computation of any period of time

imposed by this Order shall not include the date of the act or event that commences the period of

time.

        (6)    The provisions of this Order shall remain effective except to the extent that, and

until such time as, such provisions are amended, suspended, waived, or terminated in writing by

the OCC, through the Comptroller’s duly authorized representative. If the Bank seeks an

extension, amendment, suspension, waiver, or termination of any provision of this Order, the

Board or a Board-designee shall submit a written request to the Assistant Deputy Comptroller

asking for the desired relief. Any request submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall include a



                                                28
statement setting forth in detail the circumstances that warrant the desired relief or prevent the

Bank from complying with the relevant provision(s) of the Order, and shall be accompanied by

relevant supporting documentation. The OCC’s decision concerning a request submitted

pursuant to this paragraph, which will be communicated to the Board in writing, is final and not

subject to further review.

         (7)    The Bank will not be deemed to be in compliance with this Order until it has

adopted, implemented, and adhered to all of the corrective actions set forth in each Article of this

Order; the corrective actions are effective in addressing the Bank’s deficiencies; and the OCC

has verified and validated the corrective actions. An assessment of the effectiveness of the

corrective actions requires sufficient passage of time for the Bank to demonstrate the sustained

effectiveness of the corrective actions.

         (8)    This Order is not a contract binding on the United States, the United States

Treasury Department, the OCC, or any officer, employee, or agent of the OCC and neither the

Bank nor the OCC intends this Order to be a contract.

         (9)    Each citation, issuance, or guidance referenced in this Order includes any

subsequent citation, issuance, or guidance that replaces, supersedes, amends, or revises the

referenced cited citation, issuance, or guidance.

         (10)   No separate promise or inducement of any kind has been made by the OCC, or by

its officers, employees, or agents, to cause or induce the Bank to consent to the issuance of this

Order.

         (11)   All reports, plans, or programs submitted to the OCC pursuant to this Order shall

be forwarded, via email, to Christopher J. Fransway, Assistant Deputy Comptroller.




                                                    29
       (12)    The terms of this Order, including this paragraph, are not subject to amendment or

modification by any extraneous expression, prior agreements, or prior arrangements between the

parties, whether oral or written.



IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, authorized by the Comptroller as his duly

authorized representative, has hereunto set his signature on behalf of the Comptroller.



//s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 2025.04.29

 Christopher J. Fransway                                           Date
 Assistant Deputy Comptroller
 Santa Ana Office




                                                30
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the undersigned, as the duly elected and acting Board of

Directors of EH National Bank have hereunto set their signatures on behalf of the Bank.


//s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 04.29.2025                         Apr 29, 2025
  John F. Chavez                                                  Date


 //s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 04.29.2025                        Apr 29, 2025
 John L. Sadd                                                     Date


 //s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 04.29.2025                        Apr 29, 2025
 Sinan Sinanian                                                   Date


 //s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 04.29.2025                        Apr 29, 2025
 Dougley E. Stewart                                               Date


 /s/                                                              April 29, 2025
 Charles Thomas                                                   Date


 //s// Digitally Signed, Dated: 04.29.2025                        Apr 29, 2025
 Jeff Watson                                                      Date




                                              31
