                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                                      Before the
                        COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
                                                                                                       RECEIVED CFTC
                                                       )
    In the Matter of:                                  )
                                                       )
        UBS Financial Services Inc.,                   )
                                                       )    CFTC Docket No. 26-04                       Office of Proceedings
                            Respondent.                )                                                 Proceedings Clerk
                                                       )                                             01:44 pm, Jul 31 2026
                                                       )

                 ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
              SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT,
              MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

                                          I.        INTRODUCTION

        The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that
from January 2019 through June 2023 (“Relevant Period”), UBS Financial Services Inc.
(“Respondent” or “UBS FSI”) violated Commission Regulation (“Regulation”) 166.3, 17 C.F.R.
§ 166.3 (2025). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest that
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine whether
Respondent engaged in the violations set forth herein and to determine whether any order should
be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

       In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondent has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Respondent admits the facts set forth in Section II below, acknowledges that its conduct violated
Regulation 166.3, consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section
6(c) and (d) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial
Sanctions (“Order”), and acknowledges service of this Order.1




1
 Respondent agrees to the use of the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this Order in this proceeding and in
any other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, including but
not limited to, a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership, and agrees that they shall be taken as true and correct and
be given preclusive effect therein, without further proof. Respondent does not consent, however, to the use of this
Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other proceeding brought by the Commission
or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, other than: a proceeding in bankruptcy or receivership; or a
proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order.
                                        II.    FINDINGS

The Commission finds the following:

A.     SUMMARY

        During the Relevant Period, UBS FSI, a registered futures commission merchant
(“FCM”), failed to adequately configure and administer its anti-money laundering (“AML”)
transaction monitoring systems for wire transfers that were denominated in foreign currencies
and effectuated through retail customer accounts. Through this conduct, UBS FSI failed to
diligently supervise activities related to its business as an FCM in violation of Regulation 166.3.

        Customers of UBS FSI were able to utilize accounts opened for commodities or securities
trading to transfer foreign currency (“FX”). Specifically, they could send FX from and receive
FX into retail customer commodity accounts via wire transfers. Due to deficiencies in UBS
FSI’s configuration of the relevant surveillance tools and data governance practices, thousands of
FX wires sent or received through retail customer commodity accounts held at UBS FSI were
either insufficiently monitored or omitted from transaction monitoring for AML compliance. As
these failures reflect, UBS FSI lacked a reasonably designed process for subjecting FX wires
transmitted through retail customer commodity accounts to AML transaction monitoring.

       In accepting Respondent’s Offer, the Commission acknowledges Respondent’s
representations concerning its remediation in connection with this matter.

B.     RESPONDENT

       UBS Financial Services Inc. is a registered FCM with its principal place of business
located in Weehawken, New Jersey. UBS FSI has been registered with the Commission as an
FCM since 1982.

C.     FACTS

       1.      UBS FSI Failed to Diligently Supervise Its Manual and Automated
               Surveillance Systems for FX Wires.

        As an FCM, UBS FSI has an affirmative duty to diligently supervise its business by,
among other things, establishing and implementing reasonable controls to monitor transactions to
detect and report suspicious activity. Beginning prior to January 2019 and continuing to
February 2021, UBS FSI used a manually-generated report to monitor FX wire transactions sent
or received by retail commodity accountholders for suspicious activity. The manual report was
deficient, as it failed to capture all relevant FX wires for monitoring and was not tailored to
identify patterns of suspicious activity in FX wire transactions. UBS FSI was aware of these
vulnerabilities because it was the subject of prior enforcement proceedings by other government
agencies and a self-regulatory organization. In resolving those earlier proceedings, UBS FSI
represented in 2018 that it would address the deficiencies in the manual surveillance process by
implementing an automated AML transaction monitoring system by mid-2019. Despite those

                                                 2
representations, UBS FSI continued to rely on the manual report system for two years after the
2018 settlements.

        In 2021, UBS FSI transitioned to using an automated system to monitor all wire
transactions conducted through retail accounts at the firm, including FX wires, for suspicious
activity. UBS FSI, however, failed to properly configure the data flowing into the new system,
causing issues that impacted the efficacy of its suspicious activity monitoring function.
Accordingly, the deficiencies in UBS FSI’s AML transaction monitoring program span both a
portion of time when the manual report was still in use, and a more recent period of time during
which the new automated system was in use.

        Overall, due to these issues, UBS FSI estimates that more than 28,000 FX wires
effectuated through retail customer commodity accounts with a total U.S. dollar value of at least
$8.9 billion were insufficiently monitored or omitted from AML transaction monitoring during
the Relevant Period.

               a.      UBS FSI Failed to Timely Correct Known Deficiencies in Its Manual
                       Surveillance Report.

        Beginning prior to January 2019 and continuing until February 2021, UBS FSI utilized a
manually-generated report to capture inbound and outbound FX wire transfers conducted
through retail customer commodity accounts. As UBS FSI knew from the December 2018
enforcement proceedings by other agencies referenced above, the report was not reasonably
designed to detect and cause the reporting of suspicious transactions occurring in connection
with retail customer commodity accounts. The report suffered from three primary deficiencies in
its design and execution, as detailed below.

        First, while the report was intended to generate surveillance alerts for FX wires transacted
through retail customer commodity accounts, it was not reasonably tailored to address money
laundering risks. The parameters that the report applied to wire data to generate alerts focused
only on the volume of the FX wires and the notional value and type of currency involved in each
transaction. The manual report did not capture a range of suspicious activity detection scenarios,
such as transfers to/from high-risk jurisdictions, round dollar transactions, suspicious payment
instructions, deviation of actual behavior from expected behavior, velocity of funds movement
across products, or activity in dormant accounts. UBS FSI understood at the time that the
manual report did not identify those types of activities. It further understood that only an
automated solution would provide comprehensive monitoring capabilities. Despite those known
deficiencies and its 2018 representations in connection with the resolution of the prior
enforcement actions that it would implement a new system by mid-2019, UBS FSI took more
than two years after the 2018 settlements to implement an automated system. This delayed
implementation led to significant gaps in its AML surveillance of FX wires during the
intervening period.

       Second, the firm’s process for manually collecting and marrying data from multiple
sources to produce the data set for the report lacked adequate documentation. The process
required UBS FSI personnel to query as many as four different data systems to compile a list of

                                                 3
all FX wires transacted through retail customer commodity accounts for a given period;
manually search for customer identification information and relevant account numbers associated
with the transactions; and then subject the compiled wire data files to a set of coded queries. The
process involved significant data cleanup work, and its manual nature could result in input errors.
UBS FSI also did not maintain official written supervisory procedures that documented the
process for compiling the report or the individuals responsible for the report as part of its
governance or AML programs.

        Third, the report was generally reviewed on a quarterly basis, which led at times to a
series of backlogs. Given the manual nature of the alert generation process, UBS FSI staff did
not execute the report on a more frequent basis. The delays between the wire activity and the
alert generation and review process created the risk that UBS FSI was not positioned to intervene
in a timely manner to address any suspicious activity that was identified.

        Despite being on notice of these deficiencies, UBS FSI failed to timely resolve them.
While UBS FSI originally planned to implement the automated system in 2019, it ultimately did
not deploy that system until March 2021, when it began generating alerts on February 2021
transactions. UBS FSI continued to rely on the manual surveillance report as a compensating
control in the interim period.

        New deficiencies in the manual report also came to light in October 2020, when UBS FSI
discovered a coding error that had prevented certain FX wires from triggering alerts for nearly
the entirety of the prior two years. While UBS personnel were aware at that time that the coding
error affected prior iterations of the report, they took no immediate steps to escalate the issue
upon its discovery or determine the volume of missed alerts. An examination by a self-
regulatory organization later caused UBS FSI to revisit the issue and commence an internal
lookback in December 2020, approximately two months after UBS FSI personnel first
discovered the issue and its effect on prior reports. According to the assessment conducted by
UBS FSI, the manual report process failed to properly generate more than 400 alerts because of
the coding error. After the issue was identified and corrected, UBS FSI did not implement any
quality assurance processes with respect to the coding logic to ensure that the FX report was
functioning as intended for the remaining months of its use.

               b.     UBS FSI’s Flawed Implementation of an Automated AML
                      Transaction Monitoring System for FX Wires Hindered the
                      Effectiveness of Its Surveillance Program.

       Once UBS FSI implemented the automated system for AML transaction monitoring in
March 2021, not all of the relevant FX wires were transferred from source systems to that
platform as intended, and certain wires that did transfer to the platform were missing
counterparty information, affecting monitoring. Accordingly, even after the transition to the
automated system, UBS FSI lacked an effective FX wires surveillance program.

       Many of the missed wires during this period resulted from the fact that UBS FSI
incorrectly configured the system to rely on retail customer commodity account FX wire data
from an intra-day data feed of relevant transactions rather than a complete post-settlement “end-

                                                4
of-day” data feed. As a result of that error, the system ingested an incomplete list of
transactions. In addition, in January 2022, UBS FSI staff changed their practice for labeling FX
wire postings without communicating the change to the staff who handled the processing logic
for the system, and as a result the system’s logic continued to look for the prior labeling practice
and failed to identify certain transactions as FX wires. UBS FSI did not remediate either of these
issues until October 2022, more than a year after the system’s implementation.

       Issues leading to missing counterparty information in the automated system included the
absence of a common identifier (e.g., a wire reference number) to link certain data fields between
account postings and wire files and the incorrect formatting of wire reference numbers and
currency codes.

         These gaps resulted from two key deficiencies in the firm’s data governance practices.
First, prior to the automated system going live, UBS FSI did not subject the key data elements to
a full testing and mapping exercise or certification process. As a result, UBS FSI did not trace
the relevant data points from the system back to their master sources to confirm that they had
been correctly selected for monitoring. Second, until December 2022, UBS FSI did not
implement any kind of exception queue or error reporting mechanism to detect instances when
information pertaining to a wire could not be ingested into the system. For both reasons, UBS
FSI was not equipped to identify gaps or inadequacies in the flow of wire information from
upstream source systems and data feeds to the system. UBS FSI failed to identify these post-
implementation flaws until around May 2022.

       2.      UBS FSI’s Remediation

        UBS FSI has represented that it has undertaken the following remediation. Once UBS
self-identified the data issues in or around May 2022, it voluntarily brought the issues to the
attention of other regulators that were examining its transaction monitoring program for FX
wires at that time. In August 2022, after other government agencies and a self-regulatory
organization had initiated investigations into UBS FSI’s AML transaction monitoring systems
for FX wires, UBS FSI engaged a third-party consultant to evaluate the root causes of the data
issues described above, assess corrective actions, and test the flow of wire-related information to
the automated surveillance system. By the fourth quarter of 2022, UBS FSI remediated the core
data issues that contributed to the FX wire data discrepancies described above. The consultant
has also completed data testing of UBS FSI’s FX wire AML data, issued an initial report, and is
validating UBS FSI’s resolution of the data issues in preparation for producing a final report.
UBS FSI has also established a supervision structure for the handling and oversight of the
relevant transaction data pursuant to its firmwide data management framework.

        UBS FSI further engaged the same consultant to conduct a “lookback” over the
population of FX wires that were either insufficiently monitored or omitted from monitoring
during the Relevant Period due to the above-referenced deficiencies in UBS FSI’s AML
transaction monitoring processes. UBS FSI regularly reported the results of the lookback in
monthly meetings with representatives of the Commission and three other regulators.



                                                 5
        Finally, UBS FSI voluntarily engaged the same consultant to conduct an ongoing “look-
across” data review of other transaction types surveilled by the automated system at issue to
ensure that there are no similar data issues impacting the AML transaction monitoring of other
transaction types.

                                 III.   LEGAL DISCUSSION

A.     UBS FSI Failed to Diligently Supervise Its FX Wires Surveillance System in Violation
       of Regulation 166.3.

           Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2025), imposes on every Commission registrant
(except associated persons who have no supervisory duties) an affirmative duty to “diligently
supervise the handling by its partners, officers, employees and agents . . . of all commodity
interest accounts carried, operated, advised or introduced by the registrant and all other
activities of its partners, officers, employees and agents . . . relating to its business as a
Commission registrant.” A violation of Regulation 166.3 is an independent violation for which
no underlying violation is necessary. See, e.g., In re Collins, CFTC No. 94-13, 1997 WL
761927, at *10 (Dec. 10, 1997) (“It is well settled that a violation under Rule 166.3 is ‘an
independent and primary violation for which no underlying violation is necessary.’” (citation
omitted)); In re GNP Commodities, Inc., CFTC No. 89-1, 1992 WL 201158, at *17 n.11 (Aug.
11, 1992) (“Rule 166.3 establishes failure to supervise as an independent and primary violation
. . . .” (citation omitted)), aff’d in relevant part and modified sub nom. Monieson v. CFTC, 996
F.2d 852 (7th Cir. 1993).

        For a registrant to fulfill its duties under Regulation 166.3, it must both design an
adequate program of supervision and ensure that the program is diligently followed. See GNP
Commodities, 1992 WL 201158, at *17-19 (providing that, even if an adequate supervisory
system is in place, Regulation 166.3 can still be violated if the supervisory system is not
diligently enforced). As a result, a violation of Regulation 166.3 “is demonstrated by showing
either that: (1) the registrant’s supervisory system was generally inadequate; or (2) the
registrant failed to perform its supervisory duties diligently.” In re FCStone, LLC, CFTC No.
15-21, 2015 WL 2066891, at *3 (May 1, 2015) (consent order) (citing In re Murlas
Commodities, Inc., CFTC No. 85-29, 1995 WL 523563, at *9 (Sept. 1, 1995)).

        As an FCM, UBS FSI had a duty to design an adequate program of supervision for AML
transaction monitoring and ensure that the program was followed. During the Relevant Period,
UBS FSI failed to fulfill those obligations with respect to its FX wires monitoring program.
UBS FSI was aware of significant vulnerabilities in the manually-generated report system that
hindered the firm’s ability to effectively monitor FX wire transactions effectuated through retail
customer commodity accounts, but failed to reasonably address the vulnerabilities from January
2019 to February 2021. UBS FSI also failed to design adequate policies and procedures to
govern the use of the manually-generated report. In addition, once it switched to an automated
system in approximately March 2021, UBS FSI did not exercise adequate oversight over the
configuration and functioning of that system. UBS FSI therefore violated Regulation 166.3.



                                                6
                            IV.     FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

        Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, UBS FSI
violated Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2025).

                             V.      OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

       Respondent has submitted the Offer in which it knowingly and voluntarily:

A.     Consents to the resolution of this matter in an administrative proceeding;

B.     Acknowledges service of this Order;

C.     Admits the facts described in Section II of this Order and acknowledges that its conduct
       violated Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3 (2025);

D.     Admits the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
       Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
       on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

E.     Waives:

       1.    The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

       2.    A hearing;

       3.    All post-hearing procedures;

       4.    Any and all rights or defenses that it has or might have for the matter to be
             adjudicated in a federal district court in the first instance, including any associated
             right to a jury trial;

       5.    Judicial review by any court;

       6.    Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
             staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

       7.    Any and all claims that it may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
             U.S.C. § 504, and 28 U.S.C. § 2412, and/or the rules promulgated by the
             Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R.
             pt. 148 (2025), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

       8.    Any and all claims that it may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
             Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II, §§ 201–253, 110
             Stat. 847, 857–74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
             sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
             and

                                                 7
     9.    Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
           entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
           other relief, including this Order;

F.   Agrees for purposes of the waiver of any and all rights under the Equal Access to Justice
     Act specified in Paragraph E.7 above, that Respondent is not the prevailing part in this
     action;

G.   Stipulates that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
     findings contained in this Order to which Respondent has consented in the Offer;

H.   Consents, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

     1.    Makes findings by the Commission that Respondent violated Regulation 166.3, 17
           C.F.R. § 166.3 (2025);

     2.    Orders Respondent to cease and desist from violating Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R.
           § 166.3 (2025);

     3.    Orders Respondent to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of eight million
           dollars ($8,000,000), plus any post-judgment interest; and

     4.    Orders Respondent and its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions
           and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VI of this Order;
           and

I.   Represents that it has already engaged in remedial measures relating to its FX wires
     monitoring program, including, but not limited to, the following:

     1.     In August 2022, Respondent engaged a third-party consultant to evaluate the root
            causes of the data issues described above, assess corrective actions, and test the
            flow of wire-related information to the automated surveillance system. The
            consultant has completed the data testing, issued an initial report, and is validating
            Respondent’s resolution of the data issues in preparation for producing a final
            report. Respondent has also established a supervision structure for the handling
            and oversight of the relevant transaction data pursuant to its firmwide data
            management framework;

     2.     Respondent further engaged the same consultant to conduct a “lookback” over the
            population of FX wires that were either insufficiently monitored or omitted from
            monitoring during the Relevant Period due to the above-referenced deficiencies in
            Respondent’s AML transaction monitoring processes; and

     3.     Respondent engaged the same consultant to conduct an ongoing “look-across”
            data review of other transaction types surveilled by the automated system at issue
            to ensure that there are no similar data issues impacting the AML monitoring of
            other money movement transaction types.

                                               8
     Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

                                      VI.     ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.   Respondent shall cease and desist from violating Regulation 166.3, 17 C.F.R. § 166.3
     (2025).

B.   Respondent shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of eight million dollars
     ($8,000,000) (“CMP Obligation”) within thirty (30) days of the date of the entry of this
     Order. If the CMP Obligation is not paid in full within thirty (30) days of the date of the
     entry of this Order, then post-judgment interest shall accrue on the unpaid portion of the
     CMP Obligation beginning on the date of entry of this Order and shall be determined by
     using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28
     U.S.C. § 1961.

     Respondent shall pay the CMP Obligation and any post-judgment interest by electronic
     funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank
     money order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the
     payment shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent
     to the address below:

            MMAC/ESC/AMK326
            Commodity Futures Trading Commission
            6500 S. MacArthur Blvd.
            HQ Room 266
            Oklahoma City, OK 73169
            9-amz-ar-cftc@faa.gov

     If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondent shall contact the
     Federal Aviation Administration at the above email address to receive payment
     instructions and shall fully comply with those instructions. Respondent shall accompany
     payment of the CMP Obligation with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent
     and the name and docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall
     simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief
     Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre,
     1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

C.   Respondent and its successors and assigns shall comply with the following conditions
     and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

     1.     Cooperation, in General: Respondent shall cooperate fully and expeditiously with
            the Commission, including the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, and any
            other governmental agency or any self-regulatory organization, in this action, and
            in any current or future Commission investigation or action related thereto.

                                              9
              Respondent shall also cooperate in any investigation, civil litigation, or
              administrative matter related to, or arising from, the subject matter of this action.

       2.     Partial Satisfaction: Respondent understands and agrees that any acceptance by
              the Commission of any partial payment of Respondent's CMP Obligation shall
              not be deemed a waiver of its obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
              Order, or a waiver of the Commission's right to seek to compel payment of any
              remaining balance.

       3.     Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full its
              CMP Obligation as set forth in this Order, Respondent shall provide written
              notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to its telephone number
              and mailing address within ten calendar days of the change.

       4.     Notices to Creditors: Until such time as Respondent satisfies in full its CMP
              Obligation, upon the commencement by or against Respondent of insolvency,
              receivership or bankruptcy proceedings or any other proceedings for the
              settlement of Respondent's debts, all notices to creditors required to be furnished
              to the Commission under Title 11 of the United States Code or other applicable
              law with respect to such insolvency, receivership bankruptcy or other
              proceedings, shall be sent to the address below:

                       Secretary of the Commission
                       Office of the General Counsel
                       Commodity Futures Trading Commission
                       Three Lafayette Centre
                       1155 21st Street N.W.
                       Washington, DC 20581


The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.



 ~h~
Christopher J. Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: July 31, 2026
