                                                 March 17, 2026

Tyto Care Ltd.
Stella Raizelman Perry
RA & QA Director
14 Beni Gaon St.
Netanya,
Israel

Re: DEN250014
    Trade/Device Name: Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 874.4775
    Regulation Name: Ear, nose, and throat image analyzer
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: SHL
    Dated: April 19, 2025
    Received: April 21, 2025

Dear Stella Raizelman Perry:

The Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has
completed its review of your De Novo request for classification of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging
Detection, an over-the-counter device under 21 CFR Part 801 Subpart C with the following indications for
use:

           Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection is an over-the-counter web-based AI-enabled software
           analytics device intended to automatically detect the bulging of the eardrum in Otoscopic video
           recordings acquired by the compatible electronic otoscope, as identified in the product labeling, in
           patients aged 6 months and older. The device is not intended for diagnosis. A healthcare provider’s
           advice is required to understand the meaning of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection
           result. Healthcare providers should consider the device result in conjunction with otoscopic
           recordings and other relevant patient data. The device is not intended to detect other abnormal
           otoscopic findings.

FDA concludes that this device should be classified into Class II. This order, therefore, classifies the Tyto
Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection, and substantially equivalent devices of this generic type, into Class
II under the generic name ear, nose, and throat image analyzer.




U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue                                                           Doc ID# 04017.08.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov
DEN250014 - Stella Raizelman Perry                                                                       Page 2


FDA identifies this generic type of device as:

       Ear, nose, and throat image analyzer. An ear, nose, and throat image analyzer is a device that uses
       software to analyze patient-specific optical images of the ear, nose, and throat area. The results are
       provided to healthcare providers as an aid to detection, diagnosis, or monitoring of ear, nose, and
       throat conditions.

Section 513(f)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the FD&C Act) was amended by section 607 of the
Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA) on July 9, 2012. This law provides two
options for De Novo classification. First, any person who receives a "not substantially equivalent" (NSE)
determination in response to a 510(k) for a device that has not been previously classified under the Act may
request FDA to make a risk-based classification of the device under section 513(a)(1) of the Act. On
December 13, 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act removed a requirement that a De Novo request be submitted
within 30 days of receiving an NSE determination. Alternatively, any person who determines that there is no
legally marketed device upon which to base a determination of substantial equivalence may request FDA to
make a risk-based classification of the device under section 513(a)(1) of the Act without first submitting a
510(k). FDA shall, within 120 days of receiving such a request, classify the device. This classification shall
be the initial classification of the device. Within 30 days after the issuance of an order classifying the device,
FDA must publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing the classification.

On April 21, 2025, FDA received your De Novo requesting classification of the Tyto Insights for Eardrum
Bulging Detection. The request was submitted under section 513(f)(2) of the FD&C Act. In order to classify
the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection into class I or II, it is necessary that the proposed class have
sufficient regulatory controls to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device for
its intended use. After review of the information submitted in the De Novo request FDA has determined that,
for the previously stated indications for use, the Tyto Insights for Eardrum Bulging Detection can be
classified in class II with the establishment of special controls for class II. FDA believes that class II
(special) controls provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device type. The
identified risks and mitigation measures associated with the device type are summarized in the following
table:

 Identified Risks to Health                          Mitigation Measures
 Incorrect results, whether                          Clinical performance testing
     • False positives, leading to unnecessary       Labeling
         medical procedures or treatments; or
     • False negatives, leading to delayed
         patient treatment
 Overreliance or misinterpretation of results        Labeling
 leading to incorrect patient management             Human factors testing
 Software malfunction leading to inaccurate          Clinical performance testing
 patient diagnosis and monitoring or failure to      Software verification, validation, and hazard
 identify the correct condition                      analysis
DEN250014 - Stella Raizelman Perry                                                                   Page 3


In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the ear, nose, and throat image analyzer is
subject to the following special controls:

(1)   Clinical performance testing must demonstrate the accuracy and precision of the device output to
      demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use in the intended
      patient population for the stated indications for use.

(2)   Human factors/usability testing must demonstrate that the user can correctly use the device, based
      solely on reading the directions for use.

(3)   Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(4)   Labeling must include:

      (i)    Hardware compatibility information;

      (ii)   A warning that the device is not intended to be used independently for diagnosis; and

      (iii) A summary of the clinical performance testing conducted with the device, including the study
            endpoints and statistical confidence intervals.

Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some granted products may
instead be combination products. If you have questions on whether your product is a combination product,
contact CDRHProductJurisdiction@fda.hhs.gov.

Section 510(m) of the FD&C Act provides that FDA may exempt a class II device from the premarket
notification requirements under section 510(k) of the FD&C Act, if FDA determines that premarket
notification is not necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device
type. FDA has determined premarket notification is necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety
and effectiveness of the device type and, therefore, the device is not exempt from the premarket notification
requirements of the FD&C Act. Thus, persons who intend to market this device type must submit a
premarket notification containing information on the ear, nose, and throat image analyzer they intend to
market prior to marketing the device.

Please be advised that FDA's decision to grant this De Novo request does not mean that FDA has made a
determination that your device complies with other requirements of the FD&C Act or any Federal statutes
and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the FD&C Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
4, Subpart A) for combination products; and if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions
(Sections 531-542 of the FD&C Act; 21 CFR 1000-1050).
DEN250014 - Stella Raizelman Perry                                                                     Page 4


All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System Rule ("UDI
Rule"). The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its
label and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that
the dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.

A notice announcing this classification order will be published in the Federal Register. A copy of this order
and supporting documentation are on file in the Dockets Management Branch (HFA-305), Food and Drug
Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Room 1061, Rockville, MD 20852 and are available for inspection
between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday.

As a result of this order, you may immediately market your device as described in the De Novo request,
subject to the general control provisions of the FD&C Act and the special controls identified in this order.

For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, please see
Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance)
and CDRH Learn (https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you
may contact the Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific
regulatory topic. See the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-
regulatory-assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or
contact DICE by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).

If you have any questions concerning the contents of the letter, please contact Payton Lin at 240-402-6580.

                                                 Sincerely,

                                            KESIA Y. ALEXANDER -S
                                             for Srinivas Nandkumar, Ph.D.
                                                 Director
                                                 DHT1B: Division of Dental and ENT Devices
                                                 OHT1: Office of Ophthalmic, Anesthesia,
                                                    Respiratory, ENT, and Dental Devices
                                                 Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                                 Center for Devices and Radiological Health
