                                                  March 4, 2026

LifeVac LLC
℅ Natalya Valerio
Consultant
mdi Consultants, Inc.
55 Northern Blvd., Suite 200
Great Neck, New York 11021


Re: DEN250012
    Trade/Device Name: LifeVac
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 874.5400
    Regulation Name: Suction anti-choking device as a second-line treatment
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: QXN
    Dated: April 11, 2025
    Received: April 11, 2025

Dear Natalya Valerio:

The Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has
completed its review of your De Novo request for classification of the LifeVac, an over-the-counter device
under 21 CFR Part 801 Subpart C with the following indications for use:

           The LifeVac is a non-powered, non-invasive, single-use-only airway clearance device intended to
           resolve choking in a victim with a complete airway obstruction when a current choking protocol has
           been followed without success. LifeVac should only be used to remove an object/food from a victim
           with a complete airway obstruction. LifeVac is intended for use on adult or pediatric choking victims
           who are at least 1 year of age. LifeVac can be administered by a lay person or a medical professional
           (18 years or older) in various settings including at home or nursing homes, restaurants, schools, and
           other outside environments.

FDA concludes that this device should be classified into Class II. This order, therefore, classifies the
LifeVac, and substantially equivalent devices of this generic type, into Class II under the generic name
suction anti-choking device as a second-line treatment.




U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue                                                           Doc ID# 04017.08.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov
DEN250012 - Natalya Valerio                                                                              Page   2

FDA identifies this generic type of device as:

       Suction anti-choking device as a second-line treatment. A suction anti-choking device as a
       second-line treatment is intended to be used, by application of suction, to resolve choking in victims
       experiencing complete airway obstruction. The device is intended to be used as a second-line
       treatment in an emergency situation after unsuccessful use of a basic life support (BLS) choking
       protocol.

Section 513(f)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the FD&C Act) was amended by section 607 of the
Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA) on July 9, 2012. This law provides two
options for De Novo classification. First, any person who receives a "not substantially equivalent" (NSE)
determination in response to a 510(k) for a device that has not been previously classified under the Act may
request FDA to make a risk-based classification of the device under section 513(a)(1) of the Act. On
December 13, 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act removed a requirement that a De Novo request be submitted
within 30 days of receiving an NSE determination. Alternatively, any person who determines that there is no
legally marketed device upon which to base a determination of substantial equivalence may request FDA to
make a risk-based classification of the device under section 513(a)(1) of the Act without first submitting a
510(k). FDA shall, within 120 days of receiving such a request, classify the device. This classification shall
be the initial classification of the device. Within 30 days after the issuance of an order classifying the device,
FDA must publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing the classification.

On April 11, 2025, FDA received your De Novo requesting classification of the LifeVac. The request was
submitted under section 513(f)(2) of the FD&C Act. In order to classify the LifeVac into class I or II, it is
necessary that the proposed class have sufficient regulatory controls to provide reasonable assurance of the
safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. After review of the information submitted in the
De Novo request, FDA has determined that, for the previously stated indications for use, the LifeVac can be
classified in class II with the establishment of special controls for class II. FDA believes that class II
(special) controls provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device type. The
identified risks and mitigation measures associated with the device type are summarized in the following
table:

          Identified Risks to Health                      Mitigation Measures
          Injury or death from choking                    Clinical information
              • due to delayed initiation of basic        Postmarket surveillance
                  life support (BLS) choking protocol     Non-clinical performance testing
              • due to use error                          Human factors testing
              • due to inadequate suction                 Training
              • due to device failure                     Labeling
          Injury to oral/oropharyngeal tissue             Clinical information
              • due to device use                         Postmarket surveillance
              • due to use error                          Non-clinical performance testing
              • due to device failure                     Human factors testing
                                                          Training
                                                          Labeling
          Adverse tissue reaction                         Biocompatibility evaluation
DEN250012 - Natalya Valerio                                                                          Page    3

In combination with the general controls of the FD&C Act, the suction anti-choking device as a second-line
treatment is subject to the following special controls:

   (1)   Premarket clinical information, or a combination of premarket clinical information and postmarket
         surveillance (in accordance with special control (2)), must demonstrate, in the intended patient
         population:
         (i) How often the device is used consistent with anticipated conditions of use, including how
               often the device is used after unsuccessful use of a BLS choking protocol and how often the
               device is used on patients experiencing a complete airway obstruction;
         (ii) The delay in initiating a BLS choking protocol due to use of the device;
         (iii) The rate of successful device use to resolve choking; and
         (iv) The adverse event profile of the device, including injuries and device malfunctions.

   (2)   Information obtained from postmarket surveillance must demonstrate the information described in
         special control (1)(i)-(iv), in consideration of the premarket information obtained in accordance
         with special control (1), unless FDA determines, based on the totality of the premarket information,
         that information from postmarket surveillance is not required for such demonstration. Such
         postmarket surveillance must be conducted per a protocol determined appropriate by FDA for such
         demonstration (in consideration of the premarket information obtained in accordance with special
         control (1)), and must include initiation, enrollment, and reporting requirements to ensure timely
         periodic updates to FDA on postmarket surveillance progress and outcomes.

   (3)   Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under
         anticipated conditions of use, including the following:
         (i) Verification of device performance in dislodging a complete obstruction in representative
               simulated airway models;
         (ii) Verification of pressures generated; and
         (iii) Verification of device and material durability.

   (4)   The patient/user-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

   (5)   Human factors testing must demonstrate that the device can be used as intended based on the
         device user interface and directions for use.

   (6)   Training must be included with sufficient educational elements so that upon training completion,
         the user can correctly use the device, including identification of a complete airway obstruction and
         performance of a BLS choking protocol.

   (7)   Labeling must include the following:
         (i) Instructions to use the device only in the event of complete airway obstruction and after a
               BLS choking protocol fails;
         (ii) Description and access to the training required in special control (6); and
         (iii) A summary of any completed postmarket surveillance data collected as required by special
               control (2), including updated labeling to accurately reflect outcomes observed in postmarket
               surveillance.
DEN250012 - Natalya Valerio                                                                            Page    4

In order to satisfy special control (1) and (2) above, and in consideration of the premarket clinical
information provided, FDA has determined that you must conduct postmarket surveillance. FDA has
determined that to be an appropriate protocol as described in special control (2), your protocol for conducting
such postmarket surveillance must collect data with the LifeVac acquired under anticipated conditions of use
and in the intended patient population, with a justified sample size. This protocol must include:

   Study(ies) of device users’ behavior and device use, including survey data and real-world data that is
   routinely collected, that determines:
       • Rate at which device successfully resolves choking
       • Adverse events both related to device and to all procedures that were used on a choking patient
       • Whether users called 911 and performed a BLS choking protocol
       • Whether device was used on patients experiencing a complete airway obstruction
       • Whether there is a delay in initiating a BLS choking protocol due to device use

Within 30 days of receipt of this order, you must submit a complete study protocol for your study(ies) as
described above. FDA expects to work with you to determine that your study protocol is appropriate as
described in special control (2) within 60 days of this order. Your submission should be clearly labeled
“Postmarket Study Protocol” and submitted to the Agency as specified below. Please reference the De Novo
number above to facilitate processing. If there are multiple protocols being finalized after granting of this De
Novo request, please submit each protocol as a separate submission, identified by their unique study
name(s).

From the date the study protocol is determined to be appropriate, you must meet the following timelines:

  •   First subject enrolled within 6 months
  •   20% of subjects enrolled within 18 months
  •   50% of subjects enrolled within 36 months
  •   100% of subjects enrolled within 60 months

In addition, to ensure timely periodic updates to FDA on postmarket surveillance progress and outcomes
consistent with special control (2), you must submit separate periodic reports on the progress of the
study(ies) as follows:
   • Postmarket surveillance progress reports every six (6) months until subject enrollment has been
      completed, and annually thereafter, from the date the protocol is determined to be appropriate, unless
      otherwise specified by FDA.
   • If any enrollment milestones are not met, you must begin submitting enrollment status reports every
      three (3) months, in addition to your periodic postmarket study progress reports, until enrollment has
      been completed, or FDA notifies you otherwise.
   • Submit the final postmarket study report three (3) months from study completion (i.e., last subject’s
      last follow-up date).

Each postmarket surveillance report should be submitted to the Agency as specified below, identified
“Postmarket Surveillance Report” in accordance with how the study is identified above, and bearing the
applicable De Novo reference number.
DEN250012 - Natalya Valerio                                                                           Page      5

Be advised that failure to comply with any special control requirement, including the postmarket surveillance
initiation, enrollment, completion, and reporting per the postmarket surveillance protocol determined to be
appropriate by FDA as outlined above, may result in the adulteration and misbranding of your device.

Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some granted products may
instead be combination products. If you have questions on whether your product is a combination product,
contact CDRHProductJurisdiction@fda.hhs.gov.

Section 510(m) of the FD&C Act provides that FDA may exempt a class II device from the premarket
notification requirements under section 510(k) of the FD&C Act, if FDA determines that premarket
notification is not necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device
type. FDA has determined premarket notification is necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety
and effectiveness of the device type and, therefore, the device is not exempt from the premarket notification
requirements of the FD&C Act. Thus, persons who intend to market this device type must submit a
premarket notification containing information on the suction anti-choking device as a second-line treatment
they intend to market prior to marketing the device.

Please be advised that FDA's decision to grant this De Novo request does not mean that FDA has made a
determination that your device complies with other requirements of the FD&C Act or any Federal statutes
and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the FD&C Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR 803) for
devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the Quality Management
System Regulation (QMSR) (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
4, Subpart A) for combination products; and if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions
(Sections 531-542 of the FD&C Act; 21 CFR 1000-1050).

All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System Rule ("UDI
Rule"). The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its
label and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that
the dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.

A notice announcing this classification order will be published in the Federal Register. A copy of this order
and supporting documentation are on file in the Dockets Management Branch (HFA-305), Food and Drug
Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Room 1061, Rockville, MD 20852 and are available for inspection
between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday.

As a result of this order, you may immediately market your device as described in the De Novo request,
subject to the general control provisions of the FD&C Act and the special controls identified in this order.
DEN250012 - Natalya Valerio                                                                           Page      6



For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, please see
Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance)
and CDRH Learn (https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you
may contact the Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific
regulatory topic. See the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-
regulatory-assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or
contact DICE by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).

All required documents should be submitted, unless otherwise specified, to the address below and should
reference the above De Novo number to facilitate processing.

       Postmarket Mandated Studies Program
       U.S. Food and Drug Administration
       Center for Devices and Radiological Health
       Document Control Center - WO66-G609
       10903 New Hampshire Avenue
       Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002

Alternatively, documents can be submitted electronically through the CDRH Portal. For more information on
the CDRH Portal, please visit https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/industry-medical-devices/send-and-
track-medical-device-premarket-submissions-online-cdrh-portal.

If you have any questions concerning the contents of the letter, please contact Joyce Lin, Ph.D., at 301-796-
5544.

                                                 Sincerely,

                                                   SRINIVAS NANDKUMAR -S
                                                 Srinivas Nandkumar, Ph.D.
                                                 Director
                                                 DHT1B: Division of Dental and
                                                   ENT Devices
                                                 OHT1: Office of Ophthalmic, Anesthesia,
                                                   Respiratory, ENT, and Dental Devices
                                                 Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                                 Center for Devices and Radiological Health
