FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION


 MSC MEDITERRANEAN SHIPPING
 COMPANY S.A. – POSSIBLE
 VIOLATIONS OF THE SHIPPING ACT,            Docket No. 23-08
 46 U.S.C. §§ 41102(C), 40501, AND
 41104(A)(2)(A)



                     Served: January 6, 2026


BY     THE  COMMISSION:   Rebecca  F.    DYE,
Daniel B. MAFFEI, Max M. VEKICH, Commissioners.

                    Order on Initial Decision

        In this enforcement matter, the Federal Maritime
Commission (Commission or FMC) reviews the Initial Decision
(Decision) of an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) finding that the
ocean carrier MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company S.A. (MSC)
violated 46 U.S.C. §§ 40501 and 41102(c) in connection with
demurrage and detention charges (late fees). The ALJ determined
that MSC violated 46 U.S.C. § 41102(c) by billing customs agents
as “notify parties” for such fees through the “merchant clause” in
MSC’s bills of lading during the period 2018-2020, even though
such parties had nothing to do with moving cargo. The ALJ also
found that MSC knowingly and willfully violated 46 U.S.C. § 40501
by failing to include in its published tariff from 2021-2023 a
statement of what such fees were for non-operating reefers (NORs),
containers that can carry refrigerated cargo but are not being used
for that purpose. However, the ALJ denied the claim by the FMC’s
Office of Enforcement (OE) that MSC violated 46 U.S.C.
MSC - Possible Shipping Act Violations                                 2

§ 41102(c) by charging such fees for NORs at the higher rate
applicable to operating reefers, rather than as dry containers. The
ALJ concluded that even though such overcharges had occurred
more than 2,600 times in 2021, they were simply errors and so did
not constitute a prohibited “practice” of MSC under the statute.
MSC and OE each filed exceptions to some of these determinations.
As discussed below, we affirm the ALJ’s Decision in some respects,
while reversing or modifying it in others.

        First, the ALJ determined that OE proved MSC had violated
section 41102(c) 13 times by billing notify parties for demurrage
and detention through the merchant clause during 2018-2020. The
ALJ imposed civil penalties of $5,000 for each violation, or $65,000
total, and ordered MSC to cease and desist from such conduct.
Neither side objects to the determination of those violations, and
neither objects to the cease-and-desist order. OE argues that the
record supports a finding that the violations were knowing and
willful, calling for a higher penalty. But in light of the general nature
of regulation regarding such billing at the relevant time, we affirm
the finding of a non-knowing and willful violation and the remedies
imposed by the ALJ.

         The ALJ also found that MSC had violated 46 U.S.C.
§ 40501 by failing to include in its published tariff a statement of
what its demurrage and detention charges were for NORs.
Specifically, from the beginning of 2021 until March 2023, MSC’s
tariff had no clear statement of its rate or related rules for such late
fees, even though MSC maintains that its policy was to bill such
charges at the lower dry container rates. That failure continued even
after MSC’s September 2021 correction of an internal billing system
that it said had led to the related overcharges, and even after MSC
stated in March 2022 that it would revise its tariff to state what the
NOR charges were, in response to FMC concerns. Since that is a
continuing violation, each day it occurred was a separate violation
under 46 U.S.C. § 41107(a). The ALJ also found that the violations
were knowing and willful, given the unexplained delay in correcting
the tariff. The ALJ imposed a penalty of $20,000 per violation, for
MSC - Possible Shipping Act Violations                            3

a total of $15,960,000. We affirm the ALJ’s finding of violations,
the determination that they were knowing and willful from the time
of MSC’s March 2022 statement onwards, and the daily penalty
imposed for the period March 2022 to March 2023. But we find
there is insufficient evidence to support a determination that the
violations were knowing and willful prior to MSC’s March 2022
statement, reducing the daily penalty for that earlier period to
$5,000. These penalty numbers reflect consideration of the nature of
the violations, as well as mitigating and aggravating factors, under
46 U.S.C. § 41109(b)(1). The total penalty for these violations is
$9,460,000.

        The ALJ found that MSC did not violate section 41102(c) by
charging demurrage and detention for NORs at the higher rate for
operating reefers during 2021 because those overcharges did not
constitute a “practice” under the statute. The ALJ concluded that,
even though such overcharges appeared to have occurred 2,629
times, constituting only about 23% of MSC’s total U.S. demurrage
and detention invoices for NORs in the relevant period, the
company’s policy was to bill NORs as dry containers, and the
overcharges were errors caused by the internal billing issue noted
above. OE argues persuasively that so many violations in such a
limited time must be considered a practice, and prior FMC cases
finding no violation because of the infrequency of the activity at
issue have involved far more isolated incidents. Indeed, MSC has
identified no prior FMC case determining that this high an absolute
number or percentage of occurrences did not constitute a practice
under the statute. On balance, the Commission finds that these
overcharges did violate section 41102(c). Even if mainly an
unintentional result of a billing system error, the thousands of
overcharges were too numerous and frequent to be considered
anything but a practice—they averaged about 10 overcharges per
day, every day, for more than eight months—and they were
unreasonable charges for NORs, which do not require the enhanced
care operating reefers do. However, the record lacks evidence
sufficient to support a finding that the violations were knowing and
willful. Considering both the seriousness of the violations and the
MSC - Possible Shipping Act Violations                              4

burdens they placed on MSC’s customers, as well as mitigating
factors including MSC’s voluntary refunds and correction of the
billing system error, we assess a penalty of $5,000 per violation, or
$13,145,000.

        Finally, in its exceptions, MSC also raises two constitutional
objections to the imposition of civil penalties here, but neither is
persuasive. First, MSC argues that the section 40501 penalty could
only be imposed by an Article III court, in accord with the Seventh
Amendment’s jury trial guarantee, citing the recent decision in
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Jarkesy, 603 U.S. 109
(2024). Second, MSC argues that the ALJ here lacked authority to
impose any penalty because Commission ALJs enjoy protection
from removal by the President that is inconsistent with the Take
Care clause of Article II. As both MSC and the ALJ indicated, such
constitutional claims cannot be resolved by administrative agencies,
but we still provide an explanation of why they are insufficient
grounds for MSC to obtain any relief here. A section 40501 penalty
is properly assessed by a Commission ALJ because an action to
enforce that statutory tariff-publication requirement is not in the
nature of a common law claim and, in any event, the claim falls
within the public rights exception to the rule recognized in Jarkesy.
In addition, MSC’s Article II claim regarding the protection from
removal that applies to Commission ALJs cannot justify any relief
here, regardless of whether such protection is constitutionally
permissible, because MSC has failed to meet the well-established
requirement that it show it was harmed by that protection.

       In sum, we assess civil penalties against MSC for the three
types of violations described above in the total amount of
$22,670,000.

interested persons can “[a]ccess MSC’s public tariff via the
Descartes database, which includes all rates and rules that may apply
to shipments to or from the United States, in accordance with FMC
requirements.”        MSC         Applicable         Rates      Tool,
https://www.msc.com/en/local-information/america/united-
states#ApplicableRatesTool (last visited Dec. 1, 2025); see Decision
at 5. Descartes Systems Group states that it has “the industry’s most
complete offering of cloud-based logistics and supply-chain
management solutions,” including “import duty and tariff data
covering 175+ countries, with [Harmonized Tariff Schedule] codes,
duty rates, tariffs, rulings, [Free Trade Agreements], and
regulations.” Descartes, https://www.descartes.com/home; Duty
and        Tariff      Data        Solutions,        available     at
https://www.descartes.com/solutions/global-trade-
intellig
