  FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION


FMC AGREEMENT NO. 201349,
WORLD SHIPPING COUNCIL                            Docket No. 25-10
AGREEMENT, A COOPERATIVE
WORKING AGREEMENT



                      Served: June 26, 2025



BY THE COMMISSION: Louis E. SOLA, Chairman; Rebecca F.
DYE, Daniel B. MAFFEI, and Max S. VEKICH, Commissioners.


                      Order to Show Cause

        The World Shipping Council (“WSC”), a trade association
whose members operate approximately 90 percent of the world’s
liner vessel services, filed an agreement with the Federal Maritime
Commission (“Commission” or “FMC”) in October 2020, FMC
Agreement No. 201349 (“Agreement”). See Agreement (as most
recently amended and effective as of Dec. 20, 2024), attached as
Exhibit A. The Agreement authorizes WSC’s members who are
parties to the Agreement to engage in routine trade association
activities, such as exchanging information and formulating common
positions on topics relevant to ocean shipping and engaging in
public policy activities. Parties to the Agreement currently include
19 ocean common carriers (“Agreement Parties”). See Ex. A at
Appendix A: Parties. The Agreement became effective in November
2020 by operation of law. See 46 U.S.C. § 40304. The Agreement
has since been amended four times to add new parties, update
WSC’s Bylaws, and allow WSC to develop tools for cargo

WORLD SHIPPING COUNCIL AGREEMENT                             2

screening. These amendments similarly became effective by
operation of law. See id.

        The Commission has reason to believe that the Agreement,
which categorically does not involve the commercial operations of
ocean common carriers acting in their regulated capacity, is not
within the Commission’s limited jurisdiction over filed agreements.
The Commission hereby initiates an investigation of WSC’s
Agreement, pursuant to its authority under 46 U.S.C. § 41302, to
determine whether the Agreement, as filed, is in violation of the
Shipping Act, and if necessary, address issues related to the ongoing
monitoring of the Agreement. As a first step, we order WSC to show
cause as to why the Commission has jurisdiction over the
Agreement and should not cancel the Agreement as outside the
agency’s jurisdiction under § 40301(a).

I. BACKGROUND

        WSC was in operation as a trade association for
approximately 20 years before it filed its Agreement with the
Commission on October 1, 2020. See Ex. A at Art. 2. WSC describes
itself as providing “a unified voice for the global liner shipping
industry on public policy matters impacting the industry,” and as an
organization that “interface[s] with governments and advocate[s]
industry positions.” Id. WSC stated it filed the Agreement because
the trade association “decided to expand the scope of issues to be
addressed by and within WSC to include certain issues which would
arguably fall within the FMC’s jurisdiction.” Id. The Agreement
authorizes WSC’s members to exchange information and reach
voluntary agreement on various topics relating to ocean shipping,
including best practices. Id. at Art. 5.1. These topics are described
as:

   •   Environmental and climate-related matters;

   •   Positions on international agreements, treaties, conventions,
       and laws related to international trade;

WORLD SHIPPING COUNCIL AGREEMENT                            3

   •   Positions on government regulation of transportation
       infrastructure and supply chain logistics;

   •   Positions on government regulation of information
       technology and data submissions for transportation-related
       documents;

   •   Legal issues related to competition or antitrust laws and the
       application of those laws to the ocean transportation
       industry;

   •   Safety and security issues in ocean shipping, including
       dangerous cargo; and

   •   Trade association activities.

See Ex. A at Art. 5.1(a)-(g), 6.

        The Agreement amended WSC’s Bylaws such that any of its
members that meet the Shipping Act’s definition of an “ocean
common carrier” are parties to its self-styled “cooperative working
agreement” filed with the FMC. See Ex. A at Art. 8; Ex. A at
Appendix B: WSC Bylaws Art. 3, Section 8; see also 46 U.S.C.
§ 40102(7), (18) (defining “common carrier” and “ocean common
carrier”). The Agreement does not authorize the Agreement Parties
to discuss or agree on transportation rates, charges, the deployment
of vessel capacity, or the terms and conditions of the ocean
transportation services offered by Agreement Parties to their
customers. See Ex. A at Art. 5.4; Ex. A at Appendix B: WSC Bylaws
Art. 2, Section 2.

         By operation of statute, the Agreement went into effect on
November 15, 2020. See 46 U.S.C. § 40304(c)(1). Since the 2020
initial filing, the Agreement has been amended four times, all of
which have also gone into effect by operation of statute.
Id. § 40304(c)(1)-(2). The first and second amendments, filed on
December 1, 2020, and February 2, 2022, respectively, added two

WORLD SHIPPING COUNCIL AGREEMENT                            4

additional ocean common carriers as Agreement Parties. The third
