                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                                     Before the
                       COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
                                                                                                       RECEIVED CFTC


____________________________________
                                    )                                                                  Office of Proceedings
In the Matter of:                    )                                                                  Proceedings Clerk

                                     )                                                               09:42 am, Jun 26 2026

       Netrios LP Ltd. and           )                         CFTC Docket No. 26-02
       Red Acre Ltd.,                )
                                     )
                    Respondents.     )
____________________________________)

              ORDER INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
       SECTION 6(c) AND (d) OF THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT, MAKING
               FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

                                          I.       INTRODUCTION

        The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“Commission”) has reason to believe that,
from at least 2019 to September 2025 (the “Relevant Period”), Netrios LP Ltd. (“Netrios”)
violated Section 4(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), 7 U.S.C. § 6(a), and Red Acre
Ltd. (“Red Acre”) aided and abetted the violation of Section 4(a), pursuant to section 13(a) of the
Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(a). Therefore, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted to determine
whether Netrios and Red Acre (collectively, “Respondents”) engaged in the violations set forth
herein and to determine whether any order should be issued imposing remedial sanctions.

       In anticipation of the institution of an administrative proceeding, Respondents have
submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”), which the Commission has determined to accept.
Without admitting any of the findings or conclusions herein, Respondents consent to the entry of
this Order Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 6(c) and (d) of the Commodity Exchange
Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), and acknowledge service of
this Order.1




1
  Respondents consent to the use of this Order’s findings of fact and conclusions of law in this proceeding and in any
other proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, and agree that they
shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect therein, without further proof. Respondents do not
consent, however, to the use of this Order, or the findings or conclusions herein, as the sole basis for any other
proceeding brought by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party or claimant, other than: a proceeding
in bankruptcy or receivership; or a proceeding to enforce the terms of this Order. Respondents do not consent to the
use of the Offer or this Order, or the findings or conclusions in this Order, by any other party in any other
proceeding.
                                      II.    FINDINGS

The Commission finds the following:

A.     SUMMARY

        During the Relevant Period, Respondents conducted business dealing in illegal off-
exchange leveraged or margined retail commodity transactions involving U.S. customers who
were not eligible contract participants (“ECPs”) (as defined in Section 1a(18) of the Act, 7
U.S.C. § 1a(18)) that were required to be made on or subject to the rules of a board of trade,
which had been designated or registered by the Commission as a contract market (i.e., a
designated contract market (“DCM”)). Netrios sold a specialized service that provided the
essential functions for offering and selling leveraged or margined retail commodities through
offshore and off-exchange branded platforms that solicited U.S. customers without regard to ECP
status, otherwise known as “white label” entities (“WLE”). Red Acre intentionally aided and
abetted Netrios’s operations by providing customer and other support, as well as offering
marketing services, to the WLEs. In so doing, Netrios unlawfully engaged in activities that
could only lawfully be performed on a registered DCM, and Red Acre aided and abetted
Netrios’s illegal activities.

B.     RESPONDENTS

       Netrios LP Ltd. is a limited liability company incorporated in Saint Lucia and is the
successor entity of Netrios Ltd., a defunct Dominica company. Neither Netrios nor Netrios Ltd.
has ever been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

       Red Acre Ltd. is a limited liability company incorporated in the Republic of Malta. Red
Acre has never been registered with the Commission in any capacity.

C.     FACTS

        During the Relevant Period, Netrios sold a white label service that provided the
functionality for non-ECP U.S. customers to conduct leveraged or margined retail commodity
transactions through the WLEs. Netrios’s service included the following:

           •   Introducing WLEs to service providers for the purpose of overseas incorporation;
           •   Providing a ready-to-operate website where customers had access to third-party
               trading software that Netrios sub-licensed to the WLEs;
           •   Establishing margin accounts that held customer funds;
           •   Rendering trade execution and liquidity services, and
           •   Performing back-office functions.

The underlying technology and infrastructure that Netrios furnished to each WLE were largely
identical except for the branding, which was provided by the WLE.




                                               2
        Netrios controlled the default products that could be traded through the WLEs.
Leveraged or margined forex transactions comprised the majority of trades. Other products
offered included leveraged or margined precious metals, cryptocurrencies, and equities.

        U.S. customers were permitted to conduct leveraged or margined retail commodity
transactions through the WLEs without regard to their ECP status, using the system created
through the technology and infrastructure that Respondents packaged and sold to the WLEs.
Respondents knew that the WLEs regularly solicited non-ECP U.S. customers, that these U.S.
customers regularly conducted leveraged or margined transactions through the WLEs, and that
none of the WLEs were registered with the Commission in any capacity.

        Typically, an incipient customer would register a trading account on a WLE and transfer
cryptocurrency such as bitcoin, ether, or tether to a WLE margin account at a cryptocurrency
gateway and custodial wallet provider. An affiliate of Respondents owned, in part, this
gateway/wallet provider, and Netrios controlled the WLE margin accounts. Customers
conducted their leveraged or margined retail commodity transactions through the trading
software that was available on the WLE website. None of the transactions involving non-ECP
U.S. customers on the WLE platforms resulted in actual delivery of a commodity within 28 days
of the transaction date. The WLEs charged commissions which Netrios collected and shared
with the WLEs.

        Red Acre, in conjunction with and in furtherance of Netrios’s operations, provided
customer support and customer relationship management (“CRM”). Red Acre managed the
customer onboarding and screening process as part of its CRM system. Red Acre aided
customers through the registration process, answered technical questions, and responded to
customer complaints. Red Acre also offered marketing services. Red Acre intentionally
performed these acts knowing that Netrios was facilitating off-exchange leveraged or margined
retail commodity transactions involving non-ECP U.S. customers.

      As of September 30, 2025, Respondents ceased business activities related to leveraged or
margined retail commodity transactions.

                                  III.    LEGAL DISCUSSION

A.      Netrios Engaged in Unlawful Off-Exchange Leveraged or Margined Retail
        Commodity Transactions in Violation of Section 4(a) of the Act

        Section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 2(c)(2)(D), applies to “any agreement, contract,
or transaction in any commodity that is . . . entered into with, or offered to (even if not entered
into with), a [non-ECP] . . . on a leveraged or margined basis” and which does not result in actual
delivery within 28 days (hereafter, “leveraged or margined retail commodity transactions”).
Section 2(c)(2)(D)(i), (ii)(III)(aa) of the Act, 7 U.S.C § 2(c)(2)(D)(i), (ii)(III)(aa). Section 4(a) of
the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a), applies to leveraged or margined retail commodity transactions as if
those transactions were contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery. Section
2(c)(2)(D)(iii) of the Act, 7 U.S.C § 2(c)(2)(D)(iii).



                                                   3
       Cryptocurrencies traded on the WLE’s branded platforms are “commodities” under the
Act. See, e.g., United States v. Reed, No. 20-cr-500 (JGK), 2022 WL 597180, at *3-5 (S.D.N.Y.
Feb. 28, 2022); CFTC v. McDonnell, 287 F. Supp. 3d 213, 228-29 (E.D.N.Y. 2018); In re
Coinflip, Inc., CFTC No. 15-29, 2015 WL 5535736, at *2 (Sept. 17, 2015).

        Section 4(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a), in relevant part, makes it unlawful for any person
to offer to enter into, enter into, execute, confirm the execution of, or conduct an office or
business in the United States for the purpose of soliciting or accepting any order for, or otherwise
dealing in, any transaction in, or in connection with, a contract for the purchase or sale of a
commodity for future delivery, unless such transaction is made on or subject to the rules of a
board of trade that has been designated or registered by the CFTC as a contract market for the
specific commodity (i.e., a DCM). See, e.g., In re Young Scott & Associates, LLC, CFTC No.
14-27, 2014 WL 4793546, at *3-4 (Sept. 23, 2014).

        During the Relevant Period, Netrios provided technology and infrastructure to the WLEs
so that they could offer and sell to non-ECP U.S. customers leveraged or margined retail
commodity transactions involving forex, metals, and cryptocurrencies. By facilitating these off-
exchange trades, Netrios offered to enter into, entered into, executed, confirmed the execution of,
and/or conducted business in the United States for the purpose of soliciting and/or accepting
orders for, and/or otherwise dealing in, leveraged or margined retail commodity transactions with
non-ECP U.S. residents that did not result in actual delivery within 28 days. These leveraged or
margined retail commodity transactions were not conducted on or subject to the rules of a board
of trade that has been designated or registered by the CFTC as a contract market. Thus, Netrios
violated Section 4(a) of the Act.

B.     Red Acre Aided and Abetted Netrios’s Violation of Section 4(a) of the Act

        Section 13(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(a), states that any person who willfully aids,
abets, counsels, commands, induces, or procures the commission of a violation of any of the
provisions of the Act, or any of the rules, regulations or orders issued pursuant to the Act, may be
held responsible for such violation as a principal. Liability as an aider and abettor requires proof
that: (1) the Act was violated; (2) the aider and abettor had knowledge of the wrongdoing
underlying the violation; and (3) the aider and abettor intentionally assisted the primary
wrongdoer. See In re Societe Generale S.A., CFTC No. 18-14, 2018 WL 2761752, at *45 (June
4, 2018) (citing In re Nikkhah, CFTC No. 95-13, 2000 WL 622872, at *11 n.28 (May 12, 2000)).
Although actual knowledge of the primary wrongdoer’s conduct is required, knowledge of the
unlawfulness of such conduct need not be demonstrated. See id. (citing In re Lincolnwood
Commodities, Inc., CFTC No. 78-48, 1984 WL 48104, at *28 (Jan. 31, 1984)). Knowing
assistance can be inferred from the surrounding facts and circumstances. See id. (citing
Lincolnwood Commodities, 1984 WL 48104, at *29).

        Red Acre aided and abetted Netrios’s facilitation of off-exchange trades in leveraged or
margined retail commodity transactions to non-ECP U.S. customers in violation of Section 4(a)
of the Act. Red Acre knew of and intentionally aided and abetted Netrios’s efforts to conduct
leveraged or margined retail commodity transactions to non-ECP U.S. customers by providing
customer and technical support to WLE customers, including non-ECP U.S. customers, as well
as marketing services. Accordingly, pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Act, Red Acre aided and
                                                 4
abetted and is therefore liable for Netrios’s violations of Section 4(a) of the Act. See, e.g., CFTC
v. Lim, 2023 WL 11984840 (N.D. Ill. Dec. 14, 2023) (finding defendant liable for aiding and
abetting violation of Section 4(a) in consent order); In re Farmers Cooperative Co., CFTC No.
99-6, 2000 WL 36696331 (Mar. 9, 2000) (same).

                             IV.     FINDINGS OF VIOLATIONS

        Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, Netrios
violated Section 4(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a), and Red Acre aided and abetted Netrios’s
violations of that provision pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(a).

                              V.      OFFER OF SETTLEMENT

       Respondents have submitted the Offer in which they, without admitting the findings and
conclusions herein:

A.     Acknowledge service of this Order;

B.     Admit the jurisdiction of the Commission with respect to all matters set forth in this
       Order and for any action or proceeding brought or authorized by the Commission based
       on violation of or enforcement of this Order;

C.     Waive:

       1.       The filing and service of a complaint and notice of hearing;

       2.       A hearing;

       3.       All post-hearing procedures;

       4.       Judicial review by any court;

       5.       Any and all rights or defenses Respondents have or might have for the matter to
                be adjudicated in a federal district court in the first instance, including any
                associated right to a jury trial;

       6.       Any and all objections to the participation by any member of the Commission’s
                staff in the Commission’s consideration of the Offer;

       7.       Any and all claims that they may possess under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5
                U.S.C. § 504, and 28 U.S.C. § 2412, and/or the rules promulgated by the
                Commission in conformity therewith, Part 148 of the Regulations, 17 C.F.R. pt.
                148 (2025), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;

       8.       Any and all claims that they may possess under the Small Business Regulatory
                Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-121, tit. II, §§ 201–253, 110
                                                 5
            Stat. 847, 857–74 (codified as amended at 28 U.S.C. § 2412 and in scattered
            sections of 5 U.S.C. and 15 U.S.C.), relating to, or arising from, this proceeding;
            and

     9.     Any claims of Double Jeopardy based on the institution of this proceeding or the
            entry in this proceeding of any order imposing a civil monetary penalty or any
            other relief, including this Order;

D.   Stipulate that the record basis on which this Order is entered shall consist solely of the
     findings contained in this Order to which Respondents have consented in the Offer;

E.   Consent, solely on the basis of the Offer, to the Commission’s entry of this Order that:

     1.     Makes findings by the Commission that Netrios violated Section 4(a) of the Act, 7
            U.S.C. § 6(a), and Red Acre aided and abetted Netrios’s violation of that
            provision pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 13c(a);

     2.     Orders Respondents to cease and desist from violating Section 4(a) of the Act;

     3.     Orders Netrios to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one million seven
            hundred fifty thousand dollars ($1,750,000) within ten (10) days of the date of
            entry of this Order, plus post-judgment interest in the event such civil monetary
            penalty is not paid within ten days of the date of entry of this Order;

     4.     Orders Red Acre to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of seven hundred
            fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) within ten (10) days of the date of entry of this
            Order, plus post-judgment interest in the event such civil monetary penalty is not
            paid within ten days of the date of entry of this Order;

     5.     Orders Respondents and any of their successors and assigns to comply with the
            conditions and undertakings consented to in the Offer and as set forth in Part VI
            of this Order.

     Upon consideration, the Commission has determined to accept the Offer.

                                       VI.     ORDER

Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

1.   Respondents and any of their successors and assigns shall cease and desist from violating
     Section 4(a) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6(a).

2.   Netrios shall pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of one million seven hundred
     fifty thousand dollars ($1,750,000), and Red Acre shall pay a civil monetary penalty in
     the amount of seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) (collectively, the “CMP
     Obligations”), within ten (10) days of the date of the entry of this Order. If the CMP

                                               6
     Obligations are not paid in full within ten days of the date of entry of this Order, then
     post-judgment interest shall accrue on the CMP Obligations beginning on the date of
     entry of this Order and shall be determined by using the Treasury Bill rate prevailing on
     the date of entry of this Order pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1961.

     Respondents shall pay the CMP Obligations and any post-judgment interest by electronic
     funds transfer, U.S. postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check, or bank
     money order. If payment is to be made other than by electronic funds transfer, then the
     payment shall be made payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and sent
     to the address below:

            MMAC/ESC/AMK326
            Commodity Futures Trading Commission
            6500 S. MacArthur Blvd. HQ Room 266
            Oklahoma City, OK 73169
            9-AMZ-AR-CFTC @faa.gov

     If payment is to be made by electronic funds transfer, Respondents shall contact the
     Federal Aviation Administration at the email address above to receive payment
     instructions and shall fully comply with those instructions. Respondents shall accompany
     payment of the CMP Obligations with a cover letter that identifies the paying Respondent
     and the name and docket number of this proceeding. The paying Respondent shall
     simultaneously transmit copies of the cover letter and the form of payment to the Chief
     Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre,
     1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20581.

3.   Respondents and any of their successors and assigns shall comply with the following
     conditions and undertakings set forth in the Offer:

     a.     Respondents shall cease all participation in the governance, operation, or any
            other activities in violation of Section 4(a) of the Act.

     b.     Partial Satisfaction: Respondents understand and agree that any acceptance by the
            Commission of any partial payment of Respondents’ CMP Obligations shall not
            be deemed a waiver of their obligation to make further payments pursuant to this
            Order, or a waiver of the Commission’s right to seek to compel payment of any
            remaining balance.

     c.     Change of Address/Phone: Until such time as Respondents satisfy in full their
            CMP Obligations as set forth in this Order, Respondents shall provide written
            notice to the Commission by certified mail of any change to their telephone
            number and mailing address within ten (10) calendar days of the change. Notice
            should be provided to the Chief Financial Officer, Commodity Futures Trading
            Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
            20581, and to Charles Marvine, Deputy Director, Commodity Futures Trading
            Commission, 2600 Grand Boulevard, Suite 210, Kansas City, MO 64108.

                                              7
       d.     Notice to Creditors: Until such time as Respondents satisfy in full their CMP
              Obligations, upon the commencement by or against Respondents of insolvency,
              receivership or bankruptcy proceedings, or any other proceedings for the
              settlement of Respondents' debts, all notices to creditors required to be furnished
              to the Commission under Title 11 of the United States Code or other applicable
              law with respect to such insolvency, receivership bankruptcy or other
              proceedings, shall be sent to the address below:

                       Secretary of the Commission
                       Office of the General Counsel
                       Commodity Futures Trading Commission
                       Three Lafayette Centre
                       1155 21st Street NW
                       Washington, D.C. 20581


The provisions of this Order shall be effective as of this date.

By the Commission.


~h~-
Christopher J. Kirkpatrick
Secretary of the Commission
Commodity Futures Trading Commission

Dated: June 26, 2026




                                                8
