School report




Inspection of Abberley Parochial VC
Primary School
Apostles Oak, Abberley, Worcestershire WR6 6AA



Inspection dates:                         18 and 19 March 2025

The quality of education                  Good
Behaviour and attitudes                   Good
Personal development                      Good
Leadership and management                 Good
Early years provision                     Good
Previous inspection grade                 Good
What is it like to attend this school?

Abberley Parochial Primary School is at the heart of its community. Pupils and their
families are warmly welcomed to school each day. The school is ambitious for all pupils. It
sets high expectations for pupil achievement. Published outcomes confirm that pupils
achieve well. They enjoy attending. The school does all it can to ensure pupils attend
regularly and on time. The vast majority do. Parents and carers are extremely positive
about the quality of education their children receive.

The school is calm and orderly. Staff consistently provide clear routines and apply the
school’s high behaviour expectations. In classrooms, pupils listen attentively and engage
in the learning tasks set. They enjoy interactive lessons. This helps them to maintain
interest and focus. Pupil leaders organise age-appropriate activities and games during
‘happy playtimes’. Staff and the pupil well-being team are on hand to support and listen to
any worries or concerns pupils have. Pupils are well-mannered, polite and well-behaved.

Pupils say that the school is ‘an interesting, fun place to be’. They proudly take on
responsibilities in school, such as being eco-warriors, lunchtime buddies, online safety
leaders and librarians. Pupils value the worry boxes made available to them in school.
They make good use of them. Pupils feel happy and safe.

What does the school do well and what does it need to do better?

The school has adopted an ambitious curriculum for its pupils. The knowledge and skills
that pupils need to know are well sequenced with clear end points. Teachers have the
subject knowledge they need to teach the curriculum well. Pupils say lessons are
interesting and teachers help them to learn in fun ways, particularly in mathematics. Work
given to pupils helps them to apply their learning well. Pupils take great pride in their
work. Teachers make checks on learning in lessons and at regular intervals. They use this
information to plan next steps and address gaps in learning. All this means that pupils
achieve well in school. They learn and remember more of the school’s ambitious
curriculum.

Early reading is prioritised. Staff are highly skilled in delivering phonics lessons. Pupils
learn to blend sounds to read simple words and sentences. They apply newly learned
sounds when reading books that match these sounds. Pupils who fall behind are swiftly
identified. While they are well supported to catch up in their phonics knowledge, some
pupils do not get enough additional opportunities to practise their reading. This has an
impact on the speed at which they become confident, fluent readers.

Children in the early years get off to a great start. Learning is carefully planned by skilled
adults. It builds on what children know, understand and can do. Language and
communication are prioritised. Children develop an effective pencil grip and form letters
accurately. They investigate and hypothesise about how to free penguins frozen in the
water tray. Children enjoy finding out about Africa while creating pastel drawings of the
Savannah. They show the class rule of kindness by sharing and taking turns. All this
means children are well prepared for the next stage.


Inspection report: Abberley Parochial VC Primary School
18 and 19 March 2025                                                                           2
The additional needs of pupils with special educational needs and or disabilities (SEND)
are swiftly identified. Pupils with SEND get the help and support they need to be
successful in school. Staff adapt learning to support pupils to access the curriculum.
External agencies provide specialist support such as speech and language therapy. 

[...]

 excellence in the care of children and young people, and in education and skills for learners of all
ages. It regulates and inspects childcare and children’s social care, and inspects the Children and Family
Court Advisory and Support Service (Cafcass), schools, colleges, initial teacher training, further education
and skills, adult and community learning, and education and training in prisons and other secure
establishments. It assesses council children’s services, and inspects services for children looked after,
safeguarding and child protection.

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please
telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.

You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under the
terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-
government-licence/, write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU,
or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.

This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.

Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and updates:
http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.

Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted

© Crown copyright 2025




Inspection report: Abberley Parochial VC Primary School
18 and 19 March 2025                                                                                       7
