Hetton Lyons Primary School
Address: Four Lane Ends, DH5 0AH
Unique reference number (URN): 144225



Inspection report: 13 January 2026

  Exceptional

  Strong standard

  Expected standard

  Needs attention

  Urgent improvement




   Safeguarding standards met

The safeguarding standards are met. This means that leaders and/or those responsible for
governance and oversight fulfil their specific responsibilities and have established an open
culture in which safeguarding is everyone's responsibility and concerns are actively
identified, acted upon and managed. As a result, pupils are made safer and feel safe.

How we evaluate safeguarding


When we inspect schools for safeguarding, they can have the following outcomes:

  Met: The school has an open and positive culture of safeguarding. All legal requirements
  are met.
  Not met: The school has not created an open and positive culture of safeguarding. Not all
  legal requirements are met.
Strong standard

Personal development and wellbeing                                           Strong standard

Pupils' personal development is a significant strength of the school. It is underpinned by a
carefully designed, responsive curriculum that is closely matched to pupils' needs and
experiences. The comprehensive personal development programme is enhanced through
effective partnerships with external agencies, such as the fire service and community health
professionals. This ensures learning is relevant to current community issues and supports
pupils' understanding of risk. A wide range of opportunities, including guest speakers and
educational visits, enrich pupils' experiences. Leaders ensure that pupils, including those
who are disadvantaged, are very well prepared for life beyond school.

Pupils gain a sense of belonging. For example, by celebrating 'Hetton heroes' they explore
achievements within the local community. Pupil voice strongly informs provision, for
example, through discussions about effective budgeting and online safety. Learning is
structured to deepen pupils' understanding as they move through the school. Weekly
assemblies promote equality and offer pupils the opportunity to reflect on important
messages about British values, such as democracy, individual freedom and the rule of law.
Pupils are articulate, respectful and reflective when discussing diversity, fairness and
difference. Scenario-based learning, visits to places of worship and lessons about healthy
relationships further strengthen pupils' understanding. The sex and relationships education
and health education is taught effectively, in an age-appropriate way.

Pastoral care is extremely well planned. A graduated approach to nurture, supported by
assessments and external referrals where needed, ensures pupils' emotional and mental
health needs are met exceptionally well.

Pupils benefit from a wide range of clubs, leadership roles, such as 'friends against bullying',
and enrichment opportunities. Leaders closely track participation in these to ensure that
everyone is included. As a result, pupils develop character, responsibility and confidence.
Overall, pupils are eminently well prepared for life in modern Britain.




Expected standard

Achievement                                                               Expected standard

Pupils generally achieve well, as reflected in the school's published outcomes. The number
of pupils achieving the expected standard in reading, writing and mathematics at the end of
key stage 2 is close to or above the national average. This includes disadvantaged pupils,
who achieve well overall. Leaders recognise that too few pupils reached the higher standard
in reading in 2025, and that progress in writing for some pupils could be better. They are
addressing these issues effectively.

Younger pupils learn to read accurately and fluently. This is reflected in the average
proportion of pupils achieving the expected standard in the Year 1 phonics screening check.
The school's sharp focus on securing basic knowledge and recent changes to the English
curriculum rapidly closes gaps in pupils' learning. This enables pupils to apply their
knowledge and skills in other subjec

[...]

 standard of education and/or care. This means they are
following the standard set out in statutory and non‑statutory legislation and the professional
standards expected of them.

Needs attention
The expected standards are not met but leaders are likely able to make the necessary
improvements.

Urgent improvement
The school needs to make urgent improvements to provide the expected standard of
education and/or care.



The Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects
services providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects
and regulates services that care for children and young people.
If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille,
please telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.

You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium,
under the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy
Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email:
psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.

This publication is available at https://reports.ofsted.gov.uk.

Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information
and updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.

Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




                                        © Crown copyright
