Courtlands Independent Special
School
37 Parklands Avenue, Goring By Sea, Worthing, West Sussex BN12 4NG

Unique reference number (URN): 149890


Material change inspection                      11 June 2026
report:

Overall outcome                                 The school is likely to meet the relevant
                                                independent school standards if the
                                                material change relating to the school
                                                provision is implemented

This inspection was commissioned by the Department for Education (DfE), which
is the registration authority for independent schools. The school has applied to the
DfE to make a material change to its registration. The school proposes to change
the maximum number of pupils attending.

The purpose of the inspection is to advise the Secretary of State for Education
about the school's likely compliance with the independent school standards that
are relevant to the material change that the school has applied to make.


Part 8. Quality of leadership in and management of schools
When we carry out material change inspections of independent schools, we report
on the school's likely compliance with part 8 of the independent school standards
first. Under part 8, the proprietor is required to ensure that the school meets all of
the independent school standards consistently. The standard in part 8 is intended
to ensure that the quality of leadership and management at the school is sufficient
for that purpose.

Leadership is effective. The headteacher brings relevant expertise to his role. A
chair of governors with appropriate educational experience works closely with the
school to provide oversight and quality assurance. Leaders recognise, however,
that opportunities for external quality assurance would further add value, so as to
assure them that their provision remains as effective as they intend. This is


Courtlands Independent Special School, 11 June 2026
                                                                                        1
something they intend to implement from the new academic year. Leaders and the
proprietor engage with wider educational networks, including some overseas, to
further explore ideas to develop their provision.

Pupils feel safe, secure and happy in this school. They trust staff and develop
positive relationships with staff, who know them well. Staff receive appropriate
training so that they can undertake their roles effectively.

Leaders have made developments to the school site, creating 2 additional
classroom spaces, to ensure that there is sufficient space and resources for the
proposed additional pupil numbers to be educated. The school site is well
resourced to provide an appropriate breadth of educational opportunities for
pupils, including designated spaces for art, science and music, as well as
appropriate therapeutic spaces.

Leaders demonstrate a secure understanding of the independent school standards
and take actions to ensure that they are readily met. They are therefore likely to
meet these if the material change application is approved.


Part 3. Welfare, health and safety of pupils
Safeguarding

The school’s safeguarding policy is published on the school website and aligned
with statutory requirements. Staff receive regular and comprehensive safeguarding
training. This ensures they can identify when a pupil may be at risk of harm and
report any concerns swiftly.

Leaders are appropriately trained for their role in overseeing the safeguarding
culture in their school. This includes 2 senior leaders who have appropriate
training to perform the role of designated safeguarding lead. They work well with
external agencies, as well as their own therapeutic interventions, so that pupils
and their families receive appropriate and timely support.

Records are kept of actions undertaken. The actions that are taken are timely.
However, there is some inconsistency in the detail of record-keeping of leaders’
actions. While at times these are detailed and record the appropriately swift
responses that leaders have taken, at other times records do not re

[...]

ender of pupils                                Mixed
Annual fees for day pupils                      £56,100
Email address                                   head@courtlands-school.co.uk



Courtlands Independent Special School, 11 June 2026
                                                                                      6
The Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects services
providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects and regulates
services that care for children and young people

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please
telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.
You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under
the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy Team,
The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.
This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.
Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and
updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.
Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




Courtlands Independent Special School, 11 June 2026
                                                                                                     7
