Swallow Grange
The Grange, Caistor Road, Swallow, Market Rasen, Lincolnshire LN7 6DL

Unique reference number (URN): 152461


Pre-registration inspection
                                          22 July 2026
report:

Overall outcome                           The school is likely to meet all the
                                          independent school standards if it is
                                          registered. It is currently operating
                                          without registration

The purpose of this inspection was to advise the Secretary of State for Education
about the proposed school’s likely compliance with the independent school
standards and associated requirements that are required for registration as an
independent school.
Part 8. Quality of leadership in and management of schools
When we carry out pre-registration inspections of proposed independent schools,
we report on the provider’s likely compliance with part 8 of the independent school
standards (the standards) first. Under part 8, the proprietor is required to ensure
that the school meets all of the independent school standards consistently. The
standard in part 8 is intended to ensure that the quality of leadership and
management at the school is sufficient for that purpose.

Since September 2025, the proprietor has provided part-time alternative provision
for pupils with special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND). This
experience has enhanced leaders’ understanding of the needs of pupils with SEND,
including autistic spectrum disorder and social, emotional and mental health
needs. In preparation for the opening of the proposed school, the proprietor has
worked closely with leaders to establish a vision for the specialist education they
intend to provide. They are ambitious that pupils who will attend the proposed
school will experience success and become increasingly well prepared for the next
stage of their education. Pupils’ safety and wellbeing are at the heart of leaders’
work.

The proprietor has established clear systems to check the quality of the school’s
work and to hold leaders to account for the decisions they make. The proprietorial

Swallow Grange, 22 July 2026
                                                                                    1
body intends to meet on a monthly basis to offer support and challenge for
leaders. In addition, a governing body will meet on a termly basis. The appointed
governors have a range of relevant experience, including provision for pupils with
SEND. The proprietor has clearly identified delegated responsibilities that include
oversight of: the quality of education; safeguarding; pupils’ outcomes; attendance
and behaviour; progress towards school improvement priorities; and staff
workload and wellbeing.

Leaders demonstrate the knowledge and skills they need to ensure that the
school’s offer meets the requirements of the standards and to fulfil key
responsibilities relating to safeguarding and equality.

The standard in this part is likely to be met if the Department for Education (DfE)
decides to register the provider as an independent school.


Part 1. Quality of education provided
Curriculum

The curriculum policy and schemes of work set out how pupils will study language,
mathematics, science, technology, humanities, physical education and creative
subjects from the early years to Year 6. Programmes of study set out the key
learning that will provide well-sequenced lessons for pupils. For example, in history
pupils will study the Stone Age before moving on to the Bronze and Iron Age. This
will support pupils to develop their understanding of chronology.

Leaders have designed the curriculum with great care around pupils’ ages,
aptitudes and additional needs. Leaders also intend to use the information in
pupils’ education, health and care (EHC) plans, alongside contributions from other
professionals, to identify the extra help pupils will need to access the curriculum
successfully. The proposed school will prioritise pupils’ speaking, listening, literacy
and numeracy skills. Staff will provide phonics lessons using a well-sequenced
published programme for pup

[...]

f part-time teaching staff   Provider’s current position: 1
                                     Provider’s proposal: 1

Annual fees for day pupils           £94,050

Email address                        swallowgrange@footstepstofutures.co.uk




Swallow Grange, 22 July 2026
                                                                          11
The Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects services
providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects and regulates
services that care for children and young people

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please
telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.
You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under
the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy Team,
The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.
This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.
Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and
updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.
Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




Swallow Grange, 22 July 2026
                                                                                                   12
