Aspire and Achieve
Fieldhead Carr Community Centre, Naburn Approach, Whinmoor, Leeds, LS14 2EG

Unique reference number (URN): 152511


Pre-registration inspection
                                            24 June 2026
report:

Overall outcome                             The school is likely to meet all the
                                            independent school standards if it is
                                            registered

The purpose of this inspection was to advise the Secretary of State for Education
about the proposed school’s likely compliance with the independent school
standards and associated requirements that are required for registration as an
independent school.
Part 8. Quality of leadership in and management of schools
When we carry out pre-registration inspections of proposed independent schools,
we report on the provider’s likely compliance with part 8 of the independent school
standards first. Under part 8, the proprietor is required to ensure that the school
meets all of the independent school standards consistently. The standard in part 8
is intended to ensure that the quality of leadership and management at the school
is sufficient for that purpose.

The proprietor proposes to open an independent school for pupils aged 11 to 16
years old. Most of these pupils will have social, emotional and mental health
needs, an autism diagnosis and some may have moderate learning difficulties. The
proprietor has prior experience working with pupils with these specific special
educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND).

The proposed school occupies part of a building that is also used by a local rugby
club. The proprietor currently operates a separate alternative provision (AP),
known as Aspire and Achieve, in the same building as the proposed school for
pupils between the age of 11 and 16.

The proprietor has appointed some staff to the proposed school already. The
proprietor intends to appoint additional staff and make use of visiting specialists to
provide targeted therapeutic support, for example.

Aspire and Achieve, 24 June 2026
                                                                                     1
The proprietor already has ensured there are systems and training in place to
provide staff with a secure understanding of potential safeguarding risks. The
proprietor understands the importance of aligning staff training with the risks that
are particularly relevant to pupils who attend the setting and those that exist in
the local area around the school and where pupils may attend from. The proposed
school has a clear safeguarding policy that outlines how to report concerns about
a pupil and what might constitute a concern. Leaders can clearly articulate the
systems and processes that will help to safeguard pupils thoroughly. Leaders
understand which external agencies or individuals to speak to for advice and
guidance if needed.

The proposed school will utilise external professionals who work in the sector to
support and advise leaders independently. This work would include checking on
compliance with the independent school standards, safeguarding processes and
staff wellbeing. Members of the proprietary body have the knowledge and
experiences to undertake these roles should the Department for Education (DfE)
decide to register it.

The proprietor has ensured that standards in this part are likely to be met if the
proposed school is registered.


Part 1. Quality of education provided
Curriculum and Teaching

The proposed school has a suitable curriculum in place that can be adapted to
meet the specific needs of pupils who may attend the school. The curriculum
policy clearly details how pupils will be supported to make progress in a range of
subjects. These include subjects such as English and mathematics, history and
physical education as well as a range of vocational subjects. The intended
curriculum is ambitious and would allow pupils to obtain appropriate formal
qualifications should the DfE decide to register the school. Schemes of work are in
place to support the teaching of the curriculum and clearly set out what pupils will
learn at each stage of their education. Leade

[...]

ek
Number of full-time equivalent       Provider’s proposal: 3
teaching staff
Number of part-time teaching staff   Provider’s proposal: 0
Annual fees for day pupils           £63,000
Email address                        dawn@aspire-achieve.com




Aspire and Achieve, 24 June 2026
                                                                 10
The Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects services
providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects and regulates
services that care for children and young people

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please
telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.
You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under
the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy Team,
The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.
This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.
Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and
updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.
Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




Aspire and Achieve, 24 June 2026
                                                                                                   11
