Djanogly Strelley Academy
Address: Helston Drive, Strelley, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, NG8 6JZ

Unique reference number (URN): 140555




Inspection report: 23 June 2026

  Exceptional

  Strong standard

  Expected standard

  Needs attention

  Urgent improvement




    Safeguarding standards met

The safeguarding standards are met. This means that leaders and/or those responsible for
governance and oversight fulfil their specific responsibilities and have established an open
culture in which safeguarding is everyone's responsibility and concerns are actively
identified, acted upon and managed. As a result, pupils are made safer and feel safe.

How we evaluate safeguarding


When we inspect schools for safeguarding, they can have the following outcomes:

  Met: The school has an open and positive culture of safeguarding. All legal requirements
  are met.
  Not met: The school has not created an open and positive culture of safeguarding. Not all
  legal requirements are met.
Strong standard

Early years                                                                   Strong standard

Children in the early years benefit from a language-rich, purposeful and inclusive learning
environment. The curriculum is well structured and clearly sequenced. Leaders ensure that
the curriculum is well taught. They make changes to improve provision as appropriate, for
example when focusing on developing communication skills.

Staff engage in high-quality interactions. Their expectations of the way that children
communicate and use appropriate vocabulary are high. During a mathematics session, for
example, the children presented their answers to number challenges in full sentences. The
provision for 2-year-olds is equally as effective. Children repeat key vocabulary while taking
part in the ‘scarf dance’.

Leaders ensure that relationships with parents and carers are highly positive. Staff work
quickly to get to know every child and their family well. Leaders and staff quickly and
accurately identify children who face barriers to their learning and wellbeing, providing swift,
effective support.

Highly effective routines and expectations are established. As a result, children feel safe,
behave well and make notable progress from their individual starting points.

Early reading, writing and number skills are taught effectively. Staff check learning carefully
so that children build their knowledge and develop their vocabulary. Children are well
prepared for Year 1.


Inclusion                                                                     Strong standard

Leaders are committed to meeting the needs of every pupil across all of the different
vulnerable groups. Pupils’ individual needs are identified and assessed effectively. Leaders
work with parents and carers and external agencies to reduce barriers to learning through
highly effective provision. This includes an array of adaptations that enable pupils to access
learning fully with their peers. As a result, pupils develop independence and have the skills
and knowledge to excel. Parents are overwhelmingly positive about the support that their
children receive.

Pupils who find learning the hardest benefit from high quality, inclusive teaching. This is
particularly evident with the work with the ‘acorns’ specialist provision and ‘ready, respectful,
safe’ group, where effectively tailored programmes support pupils to build the skills and
knowledge that they need to succeed.

Leaders have high aspirations for pupils with additional needs. They work effectively with
providers when pupils attend alternative provision. Leaders diligently monitor pupils’
progress and assess the impact of interventions and support strategies, including the impact
of the pupil premium funding. This thoughtful, proactive approach ensures that pupils who
face barriers to their learning and wellbeing are supported to achieve well.
Staff benefit from a well-planned professional development programme. The training
supports them to understand pupils’ needs better.


Leadership and governance                                                    Strong standard

Leaders have created a welcoming, purposeful and highly 

[...]

e expected standard of education and/or care. This means they are
following the standard set out in statutory and non‑statutory legislation and the professional
standards expected of them.

Needs attention
The expected standards are not met but leaders are likely able to make the necessary
improvements.

Urgent improvement
The school needs to make urgent improvements to provide the expected standard of
education and/or care.



The Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects
services providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects
and regulates services that care for children and young people.

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille,
please telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.

You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium,
under the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy
Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email:
psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.

This publication is available at https://reports.ofsted.gov.uk.

Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information
and updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.

Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




                             © Crown copyright
