Froebel House School
5 Marlborough Avenue, Hull HU5 3JP

Unique reference number (URN): 118123

Progress monitoring
                                                   11 March 2026
inspection report:
Overall outcome                                    The school does not meet all of the
                                                   independent school standards that were
                                                   checked during this inspection

At its most recent inspection, the school was judged to not meet all of the independent
school standards and associated requirements.

The purpose of this inspection was to monitor the progress the school has made in
meeting the independent school standards and other requirements that it was judged to
not comply with at its previous inspection.


Part 8. Quality of leadership in and management of schools
When we carry out progress monitoring inspections of independent schools, we report on
the school’s likely compliance with part 8 of the independent school standards first. Under
part 8, the proprietor is required to ensure that the school meets all of the independent
school standards consistently. The standard in part 8 is intended to ensure that the quality
of leadership and management at the school is sufficient for that purpose.

The proprietor has not taken sufficient action to address the independent school standards
(the standards) that were unmet at the last standard inspection. The action plan that the
proprietor submitted following the inspection was rejected by the Department for
Education. The proprietor does not demonstrate sufficient understanding of how to meet
the standards consistently. Over time, the school’s ability to meet the standards has
fluctuated. During this inspection, multiple standards that were met at the last inspection
were found to be now unmet.

The proprietor has not established the required systems and processes to ensure that
pupils are safe in the school. For example, visitors’ identity is not checked on arrival, nor
are visitors routinely required to sign in. The proprietor does not ensure that the school
has sufficient leadership capacity to bring about the improvements required. Staff do not


Inspection report: Froebel House School, 11 March 2026
                                                                                                1
receive any subject-specific training, or sufficient time, to enable them to fulfil their roles
effectively. For example, the school has not trained staff in how to support pupils with
special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND) or other barriers to learning and/or
wellbeing. This means that the school does not meet these pupils’ needs effectively.
The proprietor’s arrangements to meet schedule 10 of the Equality Act 2019 are not
sufficient.

The proprietor has not ensured that the standards in this part are met.


Part 1. Quality of education provided
Curriculum and teaching

Pupils study a broad curriculum. In some subjects, such as art and design and personal,
social and health education (PSHE), the curriculum is suitably structured and organised. In
other subjects, leaders have not ensured that the curriculum is coherently sequenced and
progressive so that pupils’ knowledge builds over time. Where the curriculum is sequenced
effectively, pupils can talk about their learning. For example, they know they have learned
about puberty in PSHE.

The proprietor does not have sufficient knowledge of the early years foundation stage
curriculum to ensure that all requirements are met. Consequently, the prime area of
physical development is not prioritised as it should be. Children in the early years have
limited access to high-quality outdoor provision. This inhibits the development of
important skills, such as their gross motor skills.

The proprietor does not provide subject leaders with sufficient time or training to fulfil
their roles effectively. This limits their ability to complete the monitoring activities set out
in the monitoring cycle. As such, subject leaders do not have a clear view of the quality of
curriculum implementation and where improvements are needed.

The curriculum 

[...]

 proprietor ensures that an admission
  and attendance register is maintained in accordance with the Education (Pupil
  Registration) (England) Regulations 2006[13].



Inspection report: Froebel House School, 11 March 2026
                                                                                          10
The Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects services providing
education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects and regulates services that care for
children and young people

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please telephone
0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.
You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under the
terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-
government-licence, write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or
email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.
This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.
Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and updates:
http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.
Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




Inspection report: Froebel House School, 11 March 2026
                                                                                                            11
