Meadow School
Longhedge Lane, Carlton, North Yorkshire DN14 9NS

Unique reference number (URN): 152633


Pre-registration inspection
                                          1 July 2026
report:

Overall outcome                           The school is likely to meet all the
                                          independent school standards if it is
                                          registered

The purpose of this inspection was to advise the Secretary of State for Education
about the proposed school’s likely compliance with the independent school
standards and associated requirements that are required for registration as an
independent school.
Part 8. Quality of leadership in and management of schools
When we carry out pre-registration inspections of proposed independent schools,
we report on the provider’s likely compliance with part 8 of the independent school
standards first. Under part 8, the proprietor is required to ensure that the school
meets all of the independent school standards (the standards) consistently. The
standard in part 8 is intended to ensure that the quality of leadership and
management at the school is sufficient for that purpose.

The proprietors have a clear vision for Meadow School. Through their development
of a network of special schools across the country, they have developed extensive
knowledge and experience of the sector. They are using this to great effect to
ensure that they will provide quality education for pupils with special educational
needs and/or disabilities (SEND). They have a comprehensive understanding of
the standards. Their expertise has been well used to ensure that policies and
practices are already securely in place at the proposed school, and will be met
consistently over time.

The school is located on an extensive, purpose-built site. There is capacity for
greater numbers of pupils than the proprietors are registering for. However, much
thought has gone into the rationale for registering for a smaller number of pupils
and also how they will admit pupils carefully over time. The leaders are passionate
that they will focus on providing high-quality experiences and learning for a

Meadow School, 1 July 2026
                                                                                    1
smaller number of key stage 3 pupils initially. While the proprietors are clear about
the school’s potential for the future, only when these pupils are settled, will they
extend to the proposed capacity of 100.

The proprietors have developed clear systems of oversight and accountability.
They have appointed an experienced principal, a special educational needs
coordinator, teachers and other staff to manage the day-to-day running of the
school and support the pupils. Well established systems, already used in their
other schools, are securely in place to enable them to monitor important aspects
of practice, such as safeguarding, health and safety compliance and performance
data remotely. This information will be explored further in planned weekly visits
and meetings with the school leaders. Further accountability will be developed in
the future, through the establishment of a school community board, who will assist
and advise on future school development.

The standards in this part are likely to be met if the proposed school is approved
to be registered.



Part 1. Quality of education provided
Curriculum

Leaders have developed a comprehensive and ambitious curriculum for key stage
3 and key stage 4 pupils. The schemes of work are detailed and follow a variety of
pathways to various qualifications. Extensive thought has ensured that the
learning is mapped progressively across all subjects. The curriculum has been
effectively considered to provide ambitious starting points for teachers to design
learning that will challenge and engage pupils.

Leaders have a clear understanding of the range of starting points the pupils may
have when they join the proposed school. They have identified how learning can
be tracked back for pupils working below age-related expectations, to ensure they
develop the foundational knowledge they need in all subjects. Reading resources
are in place

[...]

-time equivalent        Provider’s proposal: 20
teaching staff
Number of part-time teaching staff    Provider’s proposal: 0

Annual fees for day pupils            £46,300 - £76,300
Email address                         info@meadowschoollimited.com




Meadow School, 1 July 2026
                                                                     11
The Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects services
providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects and regulates
services that care for children and young people

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please
telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.

You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under
the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy Team,
The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.

This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.

Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and
updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.

Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




Meadow School, 1 July 2026
                                                                                                   12
