Yew Tree Farm School
Swanton Street, Sittingbourne, Kent ME9 8AT

Unique reference number (URN): 150379


Material change inspection                  3 June 2026
report:

Overall outcome                             The school is likely to meet the relevant
                                            independent school standards if the
                                            material changes relating to the school
                                            provision are implemented

This inspection was commissioned by the Department for Education (DfE), which
is the registration authority for independent schools. The school has applied to the
DfE to make a material change to its registration. The school proposes to change
the age range of pupils and increase the maximum number of pupils attending.

The purpose of the inspection is to advise the Secretary of State for Education
about the school’s likely compliance with the independent school standards that
are relevant to the material change that the school has applied to make.


Part 8. Quality of leadership in and management of schools
When we carry out material change inspections of independent schools, we report
on the school’s likely compliance with part 8 of the independent school standards
first. Under part 8, the proprietor is required to ensure that the school meets all of
the independent school standards consistently. The standard in part 8 is intended
to ensure that the quality of leadership and management at the school is sufficient
for that purpose.

Leadership across the school is effective. The headteacher, who also operates as
the proprietor, and other leaders bring relevant expertise to their roles. They forge
meaningful connections with other professional networks, such as being part of
local working groups with other independent schools. Leaders also utilise an
Executive Board, who have significant and broad ranging educational and wider
expertise. This expertise is brought to bear to further develop the provision and
offer support and challenge to leaders.


Yew Tree Farm School, 3 June 2026
                                                                                    1
Current pupils are happy and feel safe and secure. They trust staff and develop
positive relationships rapidly. High staff ratios mean that pupils are supported to
develop and maintain effective relationships through tailored support. Staff receive
appropriate training so that they can undertake their roles effectively.

Leaders have made significant developments to the school site to ensure that
there is sufficient space and resources for the proposed additional pupil numbers
to be educated, including creating additional classrooms. Careful thought has been
given to designing a curriculum that meets the needs of the proposed secondary-
age pupils that leaders wish to cater for. Leaders are planning sensibly to grow
their provision steadily over time so as to maintain the quality of their provision.

Leaders demonstrate a secure understanding of the independent school standards
and take actions to ensure that they are readily met. They are, therefore, likely to
meet these if the material change application is approved.


Part 1. Quality of education provided
Curriculum, teaching and assessment

Leaders have developed an appropriate curriculum offer for the proposed
secondary-age pupils they plan to cater for. This builds effectively on the
foundations of their primary curriculum, and is likely to meet pupils’ specific special
educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND). Pupils all receive English and
mathematics teaching in one-to-one lessons, and access a wider curriculum offer
in small groups, which is built around their needs and aptitudes. This is
established in the primary phase and intended to continue in the secondary phase
should the material change be approved. There are appropriate plans in place for
pupils to receive careers advice and guidance, tailored to their individual needs, as
well as an appropriate programme for personal, social, health, relationships and
economic education.

Leaders ensure that staff are well trained to deliver the curriculum and adapt
less

[...]

ulsory school age on roll
Age range of pupils                 7 to 11
Gender of pupils                    Mixed
Annual fees for day pupils          £55,000 - £87,000
Email address                       office@yewtreefarmschool.co.uk




Yew Tree Farm School, 3 June 2026
                                                                       8
The Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects services
providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects and regulates
services that care for children and young people

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please
telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.

You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under
the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy Team,
The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.

This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.

Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and
updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.
Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




Yew Tree Farm School, 3 June 2026
                                                                                                     9
