Compass Community School Essex
274 Harwich Road, Little Clacton, Clacton on Sea, Essex CO16 9PY

Unique reference number (URN): 147473


Material change inspection                     24 June 2026
report:

Overall outcome                                The school is likely to meet the relevant
                                               independent school standards if the
                                               material changes relating to the school
                                               provision are implemented.


This inspection was commissioned by the Department for Education (DfE), which
is the registration authority for independent schools. The school has applied to the
DfE to make a material change to its registration. The school proposes to change
the age range of pupils, add additional premises and change the maximum
number of pupils attending from 18 to 78 across both sites.

The purpose of the inspection is to advise the Secretary of State for Education
about the school’s likely compliance with the independent school standards that
are relevant to the material change that the school has applied to make.


Part 8. Quality of leadership in and management of schools
When we carry out material change inspections of independent schools, we report
on the school’s likely compliance with part 8 of the independent school standards
(the standards) first. Under part 8, the proprietor is required to ensure that the
school meets all of the independent school standards consistently. The standard in
part 8 is intended to ensure that the quality of leadership and management at the
school is sufficient for that purpose.

The school is part of a wider proprietor body, with a number of other schools.
There is a robust central leadership team within the proprietor body. These
professionals are highly knowledgeable and provide effective support to the school
in all areas. This includes the quality of the curriculum, safeguarding and inclusion.




Compass Community School Essex, 24 June 2026
                                                                                       1
The proprietor ensures effective challenge as well as support to school leaders.
Layers of governance and oversight ensure that the proprietor meets their
statutory duties. This includes robust oversight of safeguarding.

The proprietor and school leaders understand the standards well. They effectively
apply this knowledge to ensure that the standards are consistently met.

Pupils’ needs are well known and understood. From the proprietor to school
leaders, pupils’ needs are prioritised and central to all decisions made. The school’s
leadership structure is clear and impactful. The school has further leadership
capacity. This will ensure smooth running of the school should the proposed
changes be granted.

While the school has the space and curriculum well in place for the proposed
changes, they are taking considered steps to expand the school. This means that
should the proposed changes take place, not all additional 60 pupils will arrive at
once. The increase of pupils on roll will increase steadily over the next year, to
ensure that the quality of the provision remains high. Leaders are clear that this
will also enable them to train all new staff, so they have the expert skills and
knowledge needed to support pupils’ various needs.

These standards are likely to be met if the request for the material change is
approved.


Part 1. Quality of education provided
Curriculum

There is an ambitious and well sequenced curriculum in place. Due to pupils
learning at a range of stages, this curriculum already extends down into the early
years. The school has carefully built the steps of knowledge pupils will learn from
the earliest stage, until the end of their time here. This has been clearly set out in
all subject areas, including those related to pupils’ personal development and life
skills.

The curriculum is suitably broad. Appropriate adaptation to breadth is evident in
the well-considered personal development curriculum areas. This includes learning
about independent living and keeping healthy. Leaders have prioritised developing
pupils’ f

[...]

    11 to 17
Gender of pupils                               Mixed
Annual fees for day pupils                     £79,521
Email address                                  nathan.kempster@compass-schools.org




Compass Community School Essex, 24 June 2026
                                                                                 8
The Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects services
providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects and regulates
services that care for children and young people

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please
telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.
You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under
the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy Team,
The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.
This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.
Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and
updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.
Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




Compass Community School Essex, 24 June 2026
                                                                                                     9
