New Forest School
Fawley Road, Fawley, Southampton, Hampshire, SO45 1FJ

Unique reference number (URN): 137279


Material change inspection                  2 July 2026
report:

Overall outcome                             The school is likely to meet the relevant
                                            independent school standards if the
                                            material change is implemented

This inspection was commissioned by the Department for Education (DfE), which
is the registration authority for independent schools. The school has applied to the
DfE to make a material change to its registration. The school proposes to change
the maximum number of pupils attending.

The purpose of the inspection is to advise the Secretary of State for Education
about the school's compliance with the independent school standards that are
relevant to the material change that the school has applied to make.


Part 8. Quality of leadership in and management of schools
When we carry out material change inspections of independent schools, we report
on the school's likely compliance with part 8 of the independent school standards
first. Under part 8, the proprietor is required to ensure that the school meets all of
the independent school standards (the standards) consistently. The standard in
part 8 is intended to ensure that the quality of leadership and management at the
school is sufficient for that purpose.

All leaders, including the proprietor and governors are passionate about providing
a nurturing, high-quality education for the pupils this school serves. The proprietor
understands the requirements of the standards in full. The school has clear, robust
systems in place to ensure that the standards continue to be met. The proprietor
has an appropriately staffed and qualified central team which supports school
leaders to maintain oversight of the standards. The school governing body
provides the proprietor with robust challenge about how well the standards
continue to be met.


New Forest School, 2 July 2026
                                                                                     1
Leaders demonstrate secure knowledge and skills appropriate to their roles. The
school has a well-qualified and suitably experienced senior leadership team which
has oversight of all the school sites. This team includes the school’s designated
safeguarding lead. In addition, senior leaders based at each site oversee day-to-
day management and safeguarding at their specific site.

There is a clear rationale for the proposed material change request. The proposed
increase in pupil numbers will meet a local area need for additional special school
places. The proprietor intends to maintain low pupil numbers at each of the school
sites with the proposed increase in pupil numbers to be across the sites. They
have determined the maximum number of pupils they intend to educate at each
site. This ranges from 34 to 48 pupils. The total number of pupils across all sites
will be 150. There is no intention currently to increase the number of sites the
school has.

The proprietor has made sure that the school’s accommodation and facilities are at
least sufficient to support the proposed increase in pupil numbers. The school has
ample space across the 4 sites to house the additional pupils. Leaders’ proposed
capacity for each site is sensible and well considered. Capacity at each site is
perfectly adequate for the proposed numbers and the furniture and staffing to
enable this capacity to be met is already in place.

The proprietor has carefully considered the impact of the proposed material
change on the staff and pupils in the school. The proprietor intends to increase the
number of pupils on each site up to the maximum identified capacity slowly. This is
to minimise the disruption to the existing pupil population. Leaders are determined
that any additional pupils added to class groups should fit in well with those
already attending the school.

The proprietor intends that class groups will not contain more than 4 pupils. Each
group will be taught by a qualified teacher and have a teaching assistant.
Currently, the school has sufficien

[...]

mpulsory school age on roll
Age range of pupils                  7 to 18
Gender of pupils                     Mixed
Annual fees for day pupils           £45,500 – £111,000
Email address                        education@newforestschool.co.uk




New Forest School, 2 July 2026
                                                                        8
The Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects services
providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects and regulates
services that care for children and young people

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille, please
telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.
You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under
the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy Team,
The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.
This publication is available at http://reports.ofsted.gov.uk/.
Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information and
updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.
Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026




New Forest School, 2 July 2026
                                                                                                     9
