Talmud Torah London
Address: 69 Amhurst Park, London, London, N16 5AW

Unique reference number (URN): 142572




Inspection report: 2 June 2026

  Exceptional

  Strong standard

  Expected standard

  Needs attention

  Urgent improvement




   Safeguarding standards met

The safeguarding standards are met. This means that leaders and/or those responsible for
governance and oversight fulfil their specific responsibilities and have established an open
culture in which safeguarding is everyone's responsibility and concerns are actively
identified, acted upon and managed. As a result, pupils are made safer and feel safe.

How we evaluate safeguarding


When we inspect schools for safeguarding, they can have the following outcomes:

  Met: The school has an open and positive culture of safeguarding. All legal requirements
  are met.
  Not met: The school has not created an open and positive culture of safeguarding. Not all
  legal requirements are met.
  Insufficient evidence: Inspectors were unable to gather sufficient evidence to judge
  whether safeguarding standards are met.
Expected standard

Achievement                                                                Expected standard

Pupils make steady progress from their starting points because leaders and staff understand
their needs and provide structured support. Many arrive with gaps in prior learning. The
school ensures that pupils receive effective support to help them build knowledge securely
over time. As a result, pupils gain confidence and show growing understanding across
subjects as they move through the school. Pupils are suitably prepared for their next steps
in education.

Pupils' achievement is most positive where teaching is well structured and revisits key skills
regularly, particularly in reading. A consistent phonics approach enables pupils to read
accurately, develop fluency and apply these skills independently. Pupils, including those who
are disadvantaged or have special educational needs and/or disabilities, generally make
positive progress because leaders reduce barriers and ensure they receive effective
support. Sometimes, when teaching does not use assessment with precision, some pupils'
depth of learning is limited.


Attendance and behaviour                                                   Expected standard

Leaders establish effective and well-embedded systems to promote pupils' attendance, and
this has a clear positive impact. Attendance remains high because leaders check and review
it daily. They follow up any pupils' absence promptly and maintain clear communication with
families. As a result, most pupils attend regularly. Leaders identify any concerns in pupils'
attendance quickly. They provide targeted support, including for pupils with additional needs,
which keeps persistent absence low. Careful management of transitions reflect leaders’
rigorous commitment to pupils’ welfare, stability and continuity in learning.

Leaders create an orderly and respectful environment where pupils feel safe, valued and
ready to learn. Positive relationships underpin this culture. Pupils behave well in lessons and
at social times. They respond to clear routines enthusiastically. Pupils concentrate well in
lessons, listen carefully, and participate actively in discussions. Staff apply the behaviour
policy consistently. This ensures that behavioural expectations remain high while support is
tailored effectively, allowing all pupils to succeed. Staff use positive reinforcement to
encourage high standards. Any serious behaviour incidents are rare and managed
effectively. This fosters a sense of safety and trust, enabling pupils to focus on their learning
without concern.


Curriculum and teaching                                                    Expected standard

Leaders have a clear and accurate understanding of strengths and priorities in the
curriculum and teaching. They take effective action to improve any areas that need
additional work. Recent developments in the structure of leadership have strengthened
focus and driven improvements. For instance, structured programmes in reading and
mathematics have led to consistent approaches across the sch

[...]

andards expected of them.

Needs attention
The expected standards are not met but leaders are likely able to make the necessary
improvements.

Urgent improvement
The school needs to make urgent improvements to provide the expected standard of
education and/or care.

Insufficient evidence
Inspectors were unable to gather reliable enough evidence to grade an evaluation area. This
is rare and normally only happens if there are no pupils on roll at the school.



The Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects
services providing education and skills for children and learners of all ages, and inspects
and regulates services that care for children and young people.

If you would like a copy of this document in a different format, such as large print or Braille,
please telephone 0300 123 1231, or email enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk.

You may reuse this information (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium,
under the terms of the Open Government Licence. To view this licence, visit
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence, write to the Information Policy
Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9 4DU, or email:
psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk.

This publication is available at https://reports.ofsted.gov.uk.

Interested in our work? You can subscribe to our monthly newsletter for more information
and updates: http://eepurl.com/iTrDn.

Piccadilly Gate
Store Street
Manchester
M1 2WD

T: 0300 123 1231
Textphone: 0161 618 8524
E: enquiries@ofsted.gov.uk
W: www.gov.uk/ofsted
© Crown copyright 2026
© Crown copyright
