Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026




                                      195 FERC ¶ 61,016
                                 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                          FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION

         Before Commissioners: Laura V. Swett, Chairman;
                               David Rosner, Lindsay S. See,
                               Judy W. Chang, and David LaCerte.

         Terra-Gen, LLC                                                    Docket No. IN26-2-000

                ORDER APPROVING STIPULATION AND CONSENT AGREEMENT

                                           (Issued April 7, 2026)

                The Commission approves the attached Stipulation and Consent Agreement
         (Agreement) between the Office of Enforcement and Regulatory Accounting
         (Enforcement) and Terra-Gen, LLC (Terra-Gen). This order is in the public interest
         because the Agreement resolves on fair and equitable terms Enforcement’s investigation
         (Investigation) under Part 1b of the Commission’s regulations, 18 C.F.R. Part 1b (2025),
         into whether: (a) Terra-Gen’s participation in the California Independent System
         Operator (CAISO) ancillary services market during the period of July 7, 2020 through
         April 17, 2022 (Relevant Period) violated the CAISO Open Access Transmission Tariff
         (Tariff), the Commission’s Market Behavior Rule (18 C.F.R. § 35.41(a)), section 222 of
         the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. § 824v), and the Commission’s Anti-Manipulation
         Rule (18 C.F.R. § 1.c.2); and (b) Terra-Gen violated the Commission’s Duty of Candor
         Rule (18 C.F.R. § 35.41(b)) in connection with a compliance report that it submitted to
         Enforcement pursuant to a prior Commission-approved settlement of an unrelated matter.

                Terra-Gen stipulates to the facts set forth in Section II of the Agreement and
         admits the violations set forth in Section III.A of the Agreement. Terra-Gen neither
         admits nor denies the alleged violation set forth in Section III.B of the Agreement.
         Terra-Gen agrees to: (a) pay a civil penalty of $4,950,000 to the United States Treasury;
         (b) disgorge $681,007, plus interest, to CAISO; and (c) be subject to the compliance
         monitoring requirements as provided in the Agreement.

         I.    Facts

               A.      Background

                Terra-Gen is a Delaware limited liability company. Through subsidiaries, Terra-
         Gen owns and operates multiple resources in the CAISO footprint, including the
         resources at issue in the Agreement: Mojave 89 and Mojave 90 (together, Resources).
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069                Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                               -2-

         4.     Mojave 16/17/18 LLC (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Terra-Gen) owns and
         operates Mojave 89. Mojave 16/17/18 LLC has market-based rate authorization from the
         Commission.1

         5.     Mojave 3/4/5 LLC (another wholly-owned subsidiary of Terra-Gen) owns and
         operates Mojave 90. Mojave 3/4/5 LLC also has market-based rate authorization from
         the Commission.2

         6.     During the Relevant Period, TGP Energy Management, LLC (TGP Energy) was
         the Scheduling Coordinator for both Resources. TGP Energy is another wholly-owned
         subsidiary of Terra-Gen.

         7.     At the beginning of the Relevant Period, each Resource consisted of a wind farm
         and an associated battery energy storage system (BESS) with a single CAISO resource
         ID, because each Resource was registered as a hybrid resource. However, on November
         19, 2020, Terra-Gen converted the Mojave 90 registration from hybrid to co-located.
         This conversion resulted in two separate CAISO resource IDs for Mojave 90—one ID for
         the wind component and one ID for the BESS component. Mojave 89 underwent a
         similar conversion after the Relevant Period.

                   B.       Terra-Gen’s participation in the CAISO ancillary services market

         8.     During the Relevant Period, Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy): (a) offered the
         Resources into the CAISO day-ahead market to provide ancillary services; and (b)
         obtained ancillary service awards based on those offers. Under the CAISO Tariff, these
         awards were binding in the real-time market and required Terra-Gen (acting through TGP
         Energy) to place the Resources on automatic generation control for the duration of the
         awards, so that CAISO could directly dispatch the Resources when and as needed.3

         9.     However, in numerous hours during the Relevant Period, when the Resources
         received binding regulation-down awards from CAISO (i.e. when CAISO instructed the
         Resources to purchase energy off the grid and store it in the Resources’ BESSs) and the
         real-time Locational Marginal Price (LMP) was high, Terra-Gen (through its relevant
         subsidiaries) employed a strategy to avoid this obligation by:

                   a.       Claiming outages for the Resources’ BESS, even though there was no
                            legitimate basis for doing so; and/or


                   1
                       Mojave 16/17/18 LLC, Docket No. ER19-1662-000 (May 30, 2019) (delegated
         order).
                   2
                       Mojave 3/4/5 LLC, Docket No. ER19-1660-000 (May 30, 2019) (delegated
         order).
                   3
                       See generally CAISO Tariff sections 8.7, 34.13, and 37.3.1.1.
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                               -3-

                b.     Removing the Resources from automatic generation control, and therefore
                       preventing CAISO from implementing regulation-down awards, even
                       though the Resources were operationally capable of meeting regulation-
                       down awards.

         This strategy was devised by, implemented by, and maintained at the direction of TGP
         Energy’s former Vice President of Origination (Former Vice President).

         10.    Engaging in this conduct only when LMPs were high was a deliberate effort by
         Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) to gain the financial benefits of avoiding high-priced
         purchases of energy from the grid when instructed to do so by CAISO. In contrast, the
         Resources did not claim outages or disconnect from automatic generation control when
         they received regulation-up awards, because these awards allowed Terra-Gen (through
         TGP Energy) to profit by selling energy into the grid in real time.

         11.    Taking an outage or disconnecting from automatic generation control in real-time
         was financially beneficial to Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) when LMPs were high.
         As the Former Vice President explained to his business team, given that Terra-Gen
         (through its relevant subsidiaries) “pa[id] for all the energy” when it was awarded a
         regulation-down award, but was only required to “pay a small amount back” of its day-
         ahead awards when it left the market, it made “sense to keep leaving the market
         whenever [they were] regulated down at high prices.” The Former Vice President
         specifically instructed his team: “If CAISO signals the battery to regulate down in a high
         pricing even[t], we will leave the market, resulting in only a small portion of lost
         revenue.”

         12.   In another contemporaneous email sent to the Former Vice President, a TGP
         Energy employee described this behavior as “leaving and rejoining the market”
         depending on real-time LMPs. Under the Former Vice President’s direction, the TGP
         Energy staff in his business unit kept account of when “CAISO was watching” to decide
         whether to claim outages for the Resources and/or turn off the Resources’ automatic
         generation control connections.

         13.    Enforcement identified 152 hours during the Relevant Period for which Mojave 89
         did not provide regulation-down services as dispatched by CAISO. Terra-Gen identified
         110 hours during the Relevant Period for which Mojave 90 did not provide regulation-
         down services as dispatched; Enforcement confirmed that Mojave 90 did not provide
         those services during those 110 hours.

         14.   By selectively avoiding regulation-down awards during these combined 262 hours,
         Terra-Gen (through its relevant subsidiaries) was unjustly enriched in the total amount of
         $681,007 ($527,480 for Mojave 89 and $153,527 for Mojave 90). This represents Terra-
         Gen’s total net profit during these 262 hours—meaning, total energy and regulation
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                               -4-

         award payments minus charges incurred for not following CAISO’s regulation-down
         dispatch signals in real time.

                C.     Terra-Gen’s compliance reporting obligations

         15.    In 2021, Terra-Gen reached a settlement with Enforcement in an earlier
         investigation arising from conduct unrelated to this Investigation.4 The Commission-
         approved Stipulation and Consent Agreement (Prior Settlement) required Terra-Gen to:
         (a) pay a civil penalty; (b) make disgorgement; and (c) submit two annual compliance
         monitoring reports to Enforcement. Among other things, these compliance reports were
         required to “identify any known violations of the CAISO Tariff or Commission
         regulations during the applicable period, including a description of the nature of the
         violation and what steps were taken to rectify the situation.”

         16.    On September 1, 2022, Terra-Gen submitted its First Compliance Report to
         Enforcement as required by the Prior Settlement. This Report did not disclose any
         violations of the Tariff associated with Mojave 89.

         17.    However, three months before submitting the First Compliance Report, on June 2,
         2022, the CAISO Market Monitor and the Former Vice President (and members of his
         business unit) had a phone call to discuss the Market Monitor’s concerns related to
         Mojave 89. These concerns involved Mojave 89’s failure to respond to CAISO
         regulation-down awards in the ancillary services market (i.e., the same conduct at issue in
         this Investigation).

         18.     As evidenced by his internal email sent on September 1, 2022, the Former Vice
         President recognized that the Mojave 89 concerns raised by the Market Monitor
         constituted a violation of the Tariff. On the same day (September 1, 2022) that Terra-
         Gen was to submit its First Compliance Report to Enforcement (but before it was
         submitted), the Former Vice President alerted the Terra-Gen personnel responsible for
         assembling the First Compliance Report—including, among others, a Terra-Gen
         executive within the highest levels of the company (High Level Executive)—about the
         Market Monitor’s inquiry into Mojave 89. The Former Vice President wrote in the email
         that, “we did violate the tariff” (referring to the conduct that was the subject of the
         Market Monitor’s prior inquiry). (Emphasis added.) The High Level Executive withheld
         disclosure pending further internal discussion, despite the Prior Settlement requiring that
         it be reported in the First Compliance Report.




                4
                The Commission approved the Stipulation and Consent Agreement in Terra-
         Gen, LLC, 176 FERC ¶ 61,071 (2021).
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                               -5-

         19.    On September 13, 2022, following a referral from the Market Monitor about the
         practices of Mojave 89 in the ancillary services market, Enforcement sent a document
         preservation notice to Terra-Gen.

         20.    On October 6, 2022, Terra-Gen provided Enforcement with an Amended First
         Compliance Report (Amended Report) that disclosed the Market Monitor’s inquiry into
         Mojave 89. Terra-Gen noted that it had submitted the First Compliance Report on
         September 1, 2022, and stated that “Terra-Gen’s senior management has since confirmed
         that representatives of Terra-Gen’s energy marketing group were contacted by the
         [Market Monitor] in May 2022 regarding the operation of Terra-Gen’s Mojave 89 hybrid
         wind and energy storage resource (Mojave 89 Resource) in the CAISO regulation
         market.” (Emphasis added.) This statement gave Enforcement the misleading
         impression that Terra-Gen did not know about the communications between the Market
         Monitor and the Former Vice President (and his TGP Energy team) until sometime after
         submission of the First Compliance Report. In fact, as discussed above, Terra-Gen
         personnel—including the High Level Executive—knew about the communications before
         the submission.

         21.    Finally, Terra-Gen stated in the Amended Report that its “senior management is in
         the process of determining whether any aspects of the operation of the Mojave 89
         Resource in the regulation market may have violated the CAISO tariff.”

                D.     Terra-Gen’s improved compliance culture

         22.    Since the events giving rise to this Investigation, Terra-Gen has made substantial,
         positive changes to its internal compliance program.

         23.    Among other things, Terra-Gen has:

                a.     Terminated the employment of the Former Vice President who led TGP
                       Energy during the Relevant Period.

                b.     Established an internal energy market compliance function under the charge
                       of the company’s Chief Environment Health & Safety Officer.

                c.     Created a new position of “Director – Energy Markets Compliance,” to
                       oversee internal compliance functions specific to Commission regulations
                       and CAISO requirements (the individual initially holding this position has
                       since been elevated to Senior Director, Compliance & Project
                       Implementation, overseeing two compliance specialists primarily focused
                       on FERC and energy markets compliance).
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069        Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                            -6-

               d.    Created a new position of “FERC EQR Compliance Specialist,” to ensure
                     accurate transactional reporting to the Commission, and tasked this
                     Specialist with reviewing and correcting prior company filings.

               e.    Created a new position of “Compliance Specialist, Energy Markets.”

               f.    Enhanced its policy on reporting suspected violations of Commission
                     regulations and the CAISO Tariff.

               g.    Created a monthly survey that relevant employees (including all members
                     of senior management) are required to take regarding knowledge of any
                     actual or suspected violations of Commission regulations or the CAISO
                     Tariff.

               h.    Established an anonymous reporting tool through a third-party service for
                     employees to report suspected regulatory violations or concerns via a
                     website or hotline.

               i.    Hired outside counsel to conduct annual training (beginning in 2022) for
                     relevant employees on compliance with Part II of the Federal Power Act,
                     the Commission’s regulations, and the company’s FERC Compliance
                     Program Manual.

               j.    Engaged a third-party consultant to administer an in-person compliance
                     training in 2023 with respect to the CAISO market design and participation.
                     This third-party consultant was also engaged to develop annual computer-
                     based training modules for all relevant personnel (i.e., all personnel with
                     market scheduling responsibilities), with respect to CAISO market
                     participation and covering topics that include Commission regulatory
                     requirements. Terra-Gen required the same personnel to undertake a
                     CAISO-created computer-based training regimen on relevant market
                     requirements.

               k.    Updated its internal Code of Ethics to include an emphasized obligation to
                     report any suspected violations of the Code of Ethics and regulatory
                     requirements, and mandated training on the new Code of Ethics for all
                     current employees and all future new hires.

               l.    Engaged another third-party consultant to provide additional CAISO Tariff
                     compliance training, and to conduct a months-long comprehensive internal
                     compliance audit focused on CAISO Tariff compliance, which resulted in a
                     report that identified areas in which Terra-Gen could enhance its practices
                     and procedures, and recommended ways in which to do so.
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069          Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                               -7-

         24.   Terra-Gen has cooperated fully in the Investigation.

         II.   Violations

                Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen’s above-described conduct violated the
         CAISO Tariff, the Commission’s Market Behavior Rule (18 C.F.R § 35.41(a)), the
         Commission’s Duty of Candor Rule (18 C.F.R § 35.41(b)), and the Commission’s Anti-
         Manipulation Rule (18 C.F.R § 1.c.2). Terra-Gen admits all violations except violation
         of the Anti-Manipulation Rule.

               A.     Violations of the CAISO Tariff and the Commission’s Market
                      Behavior and Duty of Candor Rules

                      1.     Violation of CAISO Tariff section 8.75

         26.   CAISO Tariff section 8.7 provides in relevant part: “Once the CAISO has given
         Scheduling Coordinators notice of the Day-Ahead and Real-Time Market Ancillary
         Service Awards and Ancillary Service Schedules, these awards and Schedules represent
         binding commitments made in the markets between the CAISO and the Scheduling
         Coordinators concerned, subject to any amendments issued as described above.”

         27.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) violated section
         8.7 by disregarding its “binding commitments.” Instead, Terra-Gen (through its relevant
         subsidiaries) selectively and improperly declared outages for the Resources and/or
         disconnected the Resources from automatic generation control upon receiving regulation-
         down awards from CAISO at a time of high LMPs.

                      2.     Violation of CAISO Tariff section 34.13.16

         28.   CAISO Tariff section 34.13.1 provides in relevant part:

               Resources must:

               a.     unless otherwise stated in the Dispatch Instruction, comply with a
                      Dispatch Instruction immediately upon receipt;

               b.     respond to all Dispatch Instructions in accordance with Good Utility
                      Practice;




               5
                  CAISO, CAISO Tariff, § 8.7 (Ancillary Services Awards) (1.0.0).
               6
                  CAISO, CAISO Tariff, § 34.13.1 (Response Required by Resources to Dispatch
         Instructions) (1.0.0 & 2.0.0).
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069            Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                                 -8-

               c.        meet voltage criteria in accordance with the provision in the CAISO
                         Tariff;

               d.        meet any applicable Operational Ramp Rates;

               e.        respond to Dispatch Instructions for Ancillary Services within the
                         required time periods and (in the case of Participating Generators
                         providing Regulation) respond to [automatic generation control]
                         from the EMS;

               f.        if a time frame is stated in a Dispatch Instruction, respond to a
                         Dispatch Instruction within the stated time frame; and

               g.        not intentionally generate above or below Dispatch Operating Target.

         (Emphasis added.)

         29.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) violated section
         34.13.1 by deliberately disregarding certain of CAISO’s dispatch instructions—to wit,
         regulation-down awards during times of high LMPs—and choosing, instead, to declare
         outages and/or disconnect from automatic generation control to avoid paying the high
         prices. In these instances, there was no legitimate basis for taking outages or
         disconnecting the Resources from automatic generation control.

                         3.    Violation of CAISO Tariff section 37.3.1.17

         30.    CAISO Tariff section 37.3.1.1 provides in relevant part: “Market Participants must
         submit Bids for Energy, RUC Capacity and Ancillary Services and Submissions to Self-
         Provide an Ancillary Service from resources that are reasonably expected to be available
         and capable of performing at the levels specified in the Bid, and to remain available and
         capable of so performing based on all information that is known to the Market Participant
         or should have been known to the Market Participant at the time of submission.”

         31.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) violated section
         37.3.1.1. by submitting bids in the day-ahead market with full knowledge that it planned
         to make the Resources unavailable in the real-time market (by declaring outages and/or
         disconnecting from automatic generation control) if CAISO made a regulation-down
         award when LMPs were high.




               7
                    CAISO, CAISO Tariff, § 37.3.1.1 (Expected Conduct) (3.0.0).
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069          Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                              -9-

                      4.     Violation of 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(a)

         32.    The Commission’s Market Behavior Rule, 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(a), requires Sellers
         to “operate and schedule generating facilities . . . declare outages, and commit or
         otherwise bid supply in a manner that complies with the Commission-approved rules and
         regulations of the applicable market.”

         33.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through its subsidiaries) did not operate
         the Resources, declare outages, or bid supply “in a manner that complies with the
         Commission-approved rules and regulations of the applicable market.” In particular,
         Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) disregarded certain of its
         obligations as a participant in CAISO’s ancillary services market, including the
         obligation to respond to all CAISO regulation-down awards through automatic generation
         control in real time. Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy)
         violated its obligations by selectively claiming unjustified outages and removing the
         Resources from automatic generation control when doing so advanced its financial
         interests.

                      5.     Violation of 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(b)

         34.     Enforcement also determined that Terra-Gen (through its subsidiaries) violated
         the Commission’s Duty of Candor Rule, 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(b), which requires a Seller to
         “provide accurate and factual information and not submit false or misleading information,
         or omit material information, in any communication with the Commission . . . unless
         Seller exercises due diligence to prevent such occurrences.” Enforcement found that
         Terra-Gen violated this provision as follows:

               a.     Terra-Gen violated 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(b) by omission in its First
                      Compliance Report. As noted above, pursuant to the Prior Settlement,
                      Terra-Gen was obligated to report “any known violations of the CAISO
                      Tariff or Commission regulations during the applicable period.” The
                      Former Vice President wrote in an internal email sent on September 1,
                      2022, that Terra-Gen had violated the Tariff in connection with the conduct
                      identified in the Market Monitor’s inquiry. This email was sent to, among
                      others, the High Level Executive, who signed and verified under oath the
                      First Compliance Report. This email was sent a few hours before Terra-
                      Gen submitted the First Compliance Report to Enforcement. However,
                      Terra-Gen did not include the information in that Report.

               b.     Terra-Gen stated in its First Compliance Report that it “ha[d] not received
                      notice of other violations of the CAISO Tariff or the Commission’s
                      regulations during the applicable period.” Enforcement determined this
                      was misleading in light of the information that Terra-Gen had received
                      prior to submission of the First Compliance Report.
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069          Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                              - 10 -

               c.     In the Amended Report, Terra-Gen stated that it had submitted the First
                      Compliance Report on September 1, 2022 and that its “senior management
                      had since confirmed that representatives of Terra-Gen’s energy marketing
                      group were contacted by the [Market Monitor] in May 2022 regarding the
                      operation of Terra-Gen’s Mojave 89 hybrid wind and energy storage
                      resource . . ..” (Emphasis added.) Enforcement determined this was
                      misleading, because the Market Monitor had contacted Terra-Gen in May
                      2022 and a member of Terra-Gen’s senior management (the High Level
                      Executive) was aware of this hours before submitting the First Compliance
                      Report. For example, in the same September 1, 2022 email in which he
                      stated that a violation of the Tariff had occurred, the Former Vice President
                      forwarded the Market Monitor’s initial May 19, 2022 inquiry about the
                      matter and acknowledged his participation in a prior call with the Market
                      Monitor to discuss the Market Monitor’s inquiry into Mojave 89. This
                      prior call occurred in June 2022, long before the submission of the First
                      Compliance Report.

                      Thus, by September 1, 2022, and prior to submitting the First Compliance
                      Report, the High Level Executive and other Terra-Gen personnel
                      responsible for assembling and submitting the First Compliance Report,
                      knew about the prior inquiry made by the Market Monitor. Indeed, in an
                      internal email sent on September 1, 2022, before submitting the First
                      Compliance Report to Enforcement, the High Level Executive (a)
                      acknowledged the Market Monitor’s prior inquiry into Mojave 89, but (b)
                      stated that Terra-Gen had a plan to not disclose the inquiry to Enforcement
                      in the First Compliance Report and, instead, supplement later if the Market
                      Monitor pursued the issue.

               d.     Last, Terra-Gen stated in its Amended Report that “senior management is
                      in the process of determining whether any aspects of the operation of the
                      Mojave 89 Resource in the regulation market may have violated the CAISO
                      tariff.” (Emphasis added.) Enforcement determined this also was
                      misleading, because before submitting the First Compliance Report, the
                      Former Vice President had plainly stated in the September 1 email that
                      Terra-Gen had violated the Tariff. Even if others at Terra-Gen did not take
                      his statement at face value, the Former Vice President’s statement qualified
                      as reason enough to believe that Terra-Gen “may” have violated the Tariff.

         35.   Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen did not exercise due diligence in
         connection with these misstatements and omissions.
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069             Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                                  - 11 -

                B.     Violation of Section 222 of the Federal Power Act and the
                       Commission’s Anti-Manipulation Rule

         36.    Section 222 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. § 824v) and the Commission’s
         Anti-Manipulation Rule promulgated thereunder (18 C.F.R. § 1c.2) broadly prohibit
         fraudulent and manipulative practices within the nation’s interstate electricity markets. In
         relevant part, the Rule provides: “It shall be unlawful for any entity, directly or indirectly,
         in connection with the purchase or sale of electric energy . . . subject to the jurisdiction of
         the Commission,” to “employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud,” or to “engage
         in any act, practice, or course of business that operates or would operate as a fraud or
         deceit upon any entity.”

         37.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) engaged in a
         “scheme,” “practice, or course of business” during the Relevant Period that operated as a
         fraud on CAISO and its ancillary services market. As detailed above, the Former Vice
         President developed a strategy consisting of selectively exiting the CAISO real-time
         ancillary services market by declaring outages for the Resources and/or disconnecting the
         Resources from automatic generation control if—and only if—CAISO directed Terra-
         Gen (through TGP Energy) to purchase electricity from the grid (through a regulation-
         down award) at a time of high LMPs. The Former Vice President directed the employees
         under his supervision to engage in the manipulative conduct.

         38.     This scheme included bidding for ancillary services in the day-ahead market with
         the intention of submitting illegitimate outages and/or disconnecting from automatic
         generation control in unfavorable economic conditions. By selectively participating in
         the ancillary services market—that is, by reaping the profits of regulation-up awards and
         simultaneously avoiding regulation-down awards when the LMPs were high—Terra-Gen
         (through TGP Energy) was able to maximize its profits and minimize or eliminate the
         risks that are naturally attendant to participation in the CAISO ancillary services market.

         39.     Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) received more than $680,000 in unjust profits
         from CAISO, but refused to deliver in real-time when economic conditions did not suit
         its financial interests.

         40.    Enforcement determined that the evidence, moreover, demonstrates that Terra-Gen
         (through TGP Energy) acted with the intention of defrauding the market, i.e., with
         scienter. The Former Vice President calculated that Terra-Gen would make more money
         by offering bids into the day-ahead market, and then avoiding regulation-down awards in
         the real-time market through unjustified outages and/or disconnecting from automatic
         generation control, as opposed to complying with the Tariff and fulfilling all ancillary
         services awards under all conditions. The Former Vice President directed his team via
         email to engage in this unlawful scheme: “If CAISO signals the battery to regulate down
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069            Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                                 - 12 -

         in a high pricing even[t], we will leave the market, resulting in only a small portion of
         lost revenue.”

         41.    Enforcement determined that additional evidence that Terra-Gen acted with
         scienter is provided by contemporaneous internal emails demonstrating that the Former
         Vice President and his team would not engage in the scheme if they believed that CAISO
         was “watching.” For example, in an email sent to the Former Vice President on July 10,
         2021, a member of his business team reported that Terra-Gen had incurred several
         thousands of dollars in losses as a result of a CAISO regulation-down award. This
         employee explained that because “CAISO was carefully watching our battery,” the team
         “did not have much opportunity to leave the market to prevent” the losses. Enforcement
         determined that this evidence proves that Terra-Gen (through certain TGP Energy
         personnel) knew that its actions were in violation of Commission regulations and/or the
         CAISO Tariff and actively took steps to avoid detection.

         42.     Last, the CAISO ancillary services market is a Commission-regulated interstate
         market that is subject to the Commission-approved Tariff, and, therefore, the
         manipulative conduct described herein was carried out “in connection with the purchase
         or sale of electric energy . . . subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.”

         III.   Stipulation and Consent Agreement

                Enforcement and Terra-Gen have resolved the Investigation by means of the
         attached Agreement.

                Terra-Gen stipulates to the facts set forth in section II of the Agreement, admits
         the violations described in section III.A of the Agreement, and neither admits nor denies
         the violations described in section III.B of the Agreement.

                Terra-Gen agrees to pay a civil penalty of $4,950,000 to the United States
         Treasury, by wire transfer, within ten days after the Effective Date of the Agreement, as
         defined therein.

                Terra-Gen agrees to pay disgorgement within ten days of the Effective Date of the
         Agreement to CAISO in the amount of $681,007, plus interest, calculated pursuant to
         section 35.19a of the Commission’s regulations (18 C.F.R. § 35.19a). This disgorgement
         shall be allocated by CAISO in its discretion for the benefit of CAISO’s customers,
         subject to prior approval by Enforcement of CAISO’s allocation plan.

                Terra-Gen agrees to submit annual compliance monitoring reports to Enforcement
         for two years following the Effective Date of this Agreement, plus a third year at
         Enforcement’s sole discretion. The first annual compliance monitoring report shall be
         submitted one year after the Effective Date. The second annual compliance monitoring
         report shall be submitted one year from the date of the first report.
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069            Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                                 - 13 -

         IV.    Determination of Appropriate Sanctions and Remedies

                In recommending the appropriate remedy, Enforcement considered the factors in
         the Revised Policy Statement on Penalty Guidelines,8 including the fact that Terra-Gen
         fully cooperated with Enforcement during the Investigation and admitted most of the
         above-described violations.9

                The Commission concludes that the Agreement is a fair and equitable resolution of
         the matters concerned and is in the public interest, as it reflects the nature and seriousness
         of the conduct and recognizes the specific considerations stated above and in the
         Agreement.

               The Commission also concludes that Terra-Gen’s civil penalty is consistent with
         the Revised Policy Statement on Penalty Guidelines.

               The Commission directs Terra-Gen to pay the civil penalty to the United States
         Treasury, by wire transfer, within ten days after the Effective Date of the Agreement.

                The Commission further directs Terra-Gen to make the disgorgement payment,
         plus interest, as required under the Agreement, within ten days after the Effective Date of
         the Agreement.

                The Commission directs Terra-Gen to comply with the compliance monitoring
         provisions set forth in the Agreement.

               The Commission directs CAISO to allocate the disgorgement funds as set forth in
         the Agreement.




                8
                    Enforcement of Statutes, Orders, Rules, and Regulations, 132 FERC ¶ 61,216
         (2010).
                9
                   The following is applicable to small entities including businesses with 1,500 or
         fewer employees, independent schools / universities, trade associations, other non-profits,
         cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school districts, and other special districts -
         The National Ombudsman resolves concerns of uneven or excessive federal regulatory
         enforcement. Reviews are confidential and do not waive the right to pursue
         administrative appeals or any other legal action. 888-REG-FAIR /
         Ombudsman@SBA.gov.
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069        Filed Date: 04/07/2026

         Docket No. IN26-2-000                                                         - 14 -

         The Commission orders:

               The attached Stipulation and Consent Agreement is hereby approved without
         modification.

         By the Commission.

         (SEAL)




                                                   Debbie-Anne A. Reese,
                                                         Secretary.
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069          Filed Date: 04/07/2026




                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                        FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION

               Terra-Gen, LLC                                     Docket No.        IN26-2-000


                           STIPULATION AND CONSENT AGREEMENT

         I.    INTRODUCTION

                 1.     The Office of Enforcement and Regulatory Accounting (Enforcement) of
         the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission or FERC) and Terra-Gen, LLC
         (Terra-Gen) enter into this Stipulation and Consent Agreement (Agreement) to resolve a
         nonpublic, preliminary investigation (Investigation) conducted by Enforcement pursuant
         to Part 1b of the Commission’s regulations, 18 C.F.R. Part 1b (2025). This Investigation
         focused on: (a) Terra-Gen’s practices at its Mojave 89 and Mojave 90 resources
         (together, Resources) in connection with the California Independent System Operator
         (CAISO) ancillary services market, during the period of July 7, 2020 through April 17,
         2022 (Relevant Period); and (b) Terra-Gen’s disclosure failures related to an inquiry
         made by CAISO’s Department of Market Monitoring (Market Monitor) into Mojave 89
         in compliance reports submitted to Enforcement, which reports were required by a
         Commission-approved settlement of an unrelated matter.

                2.     Terra-Gen stipulates to the facts set forth in Section II of this Agreement,
         admits the violations identified in Section III.A., and neither admits nor denies the
         violation identified in Section III.B. Terra-Gen agrees to: (a) pay a civil penalty of
         $4,950,000 to the United States Treasury; (b) disgorge $681,007, plus interest, to CAISO;
         and (c) be subject to the compliance monitoring as provided more fully below.

         II.   STIPULATIONS

         Enforcement and Terra-Gen hereby stipulate and agree to the following facts.

               A.     Background

               3.      Terra-Gen is a Delaware limited liability company. Through subsidiaries,
         Terra-Gen owns and operates multiple resources in the CAISO footprint, including the
         Resources at issue in this Agreement.

                4.    Mojave 16/17/18 LLC (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Terra-Gen) owns and
         operates Mojave 89. Mojave 16/17/18 LLC has market-based rate authorization from the
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069                Filed Date: 04/07/2026




         Commission.1

                5.    Mojave 3/4/5 LLC (another wholly-owned subsidiary of Terra-Gen) owns
         and operates Mojave 90. Mojave 3/4/5 LLC also has market-based rate authorization
         from the Commission.2

               6.     During the Relevant Period, TGP Energy Management, LLC (TGP Energy)
         was the Scheduling Coordinator for both Resources. TGP Energy is another wholly-
         owned subsidiary of Terra-Gen.

                7.     At the beginning of the Relevant Period, each Resource consisted of a wind
         farm and an associated battery energy storage system (BESS) with a single CAISO
         resource ID, because each Resource was registered as a hybrid resource. However, on
         November 19, 2020, Terra-Gen converted the Mojave 90 registration from hybrid to co-
         located. This conversion resulted in two separate CAISO resource IDs for Mojave 90—
         one ID for the wind component and one for the BESS component. Mojave 89 underwent
         a similar conversion after the Relevant Period.

                   B.       Terra-Gen’s participation in the CAISO ancillary services market

                8.     During the Relevant Period, Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy): (a) offered
         the Resources into the CAISO day-ahead market to provide ancillary services; and (b)
         obtained ancillary service awards based on those offers. Under the CAISO Open Access
         Transmission Tariff (Tariff), these awards were binding in the real-time market and
         required Terra-Gen (acting through TGP Energy) to place the Resources on automatic
         generation control for the duration of the awards, so that CAISO could directly dispatch
         the Resources when and as needed.3

                9.      However, in numerous hours during the Relevant Period, when the
         Resources received binding regulation-down awards from CAISO (i.e. when CAISO
         instructed the Resources to purchase energy off the grid and store it in the Resources’
         BESSs) and the real-time Locational Marginal Price (LMP) was high, Terra-Gen
         (through its relevant subsidiaries) employed a strategy to avoid this obligation by:

                   a.       Claiming outages for the Resources’ BESSs, even though there was no
                            legitimate basis for doing so; and/or

                   b.       Removing the Resources from automatic generation control, and therefore

                   1
                       Mojave 16/17/18 LLC, Docket No. ER19-1662-000 (May 30, 2019) (delegated
         order).
                   2
                       Mojave 3/4/5 LLC, Docket No. ER19-1660-000 (May 30, 2019) (delegated
         order).
                   3
                       See generally CAISO Tariff sections 8.7, 34.13, and 37.3.1.1.
                                                          2
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026




                       preventing CAISO from implementing regulation-down awards, even
                       though the Resources were operationally capable of meeting regulation-
                       down awards.

         This strategy was devised by, implemented by, and maintained at the direction of TGP
         Energy’s former Vice President of Origination (Former Vice President).

                 10.    Engaging in this conduct only when LMPs were high was a deliberate
         effort by Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) to gain the financial benefits of avoiding
         high-priced purchases of energy from the grid when instructed to do so by CAISO. In
         contrast, the Resources did not claim outages or disconnect from automatic generation
         control when they received regulation-up awards, because these awards allowed Terra-
         Gen (through TGP Energy) to profit by selling energy into the grid in real time.

                 11.    Taking an outage or disconnecting from automatic generation control in
         real-time was financially beneficial to Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) when LMPs
         were high. As the Former Vice President explained to his business team, given that
         Terra-Gen (through its relevant subsidiaries) “pa[id] for all the energy” when it was
         awarded a regulation-down award, but was only required to “pay a small amount back”
         of its day-ahead awards when it left the market, it made “sense to keep leaving the market
         whenever [they were] regulated down at high prices.” The Former Vice President
         specifically instructed his team: “If CAISO signals the battery to regulate down in a high
         pricing even[t], we will leave the market, resulting in only a small portion of lost
         revenue.”

               12.     In another contemporaneous email sent to the Former Vice President, a
         TGP Energy employee described this behavior as “leaving and rejoining the market”
         depending on real-time LMPs. Under the Former Vice President’s direction, the TGP
         Energy staff in his business unit kept account of when “CAISO was watching” to decide
         whether to claim outages for the Resources and/or turn off the Resources’ automatic
         generation control connections.

                13.    Enforcement identified 152 hours during the Relevant Period for which
         Mojave 89 did not provide regulation-down services as dispatched by CAISO. Terra-
         Gen identified 110 hours during the Relevant Period for which Mojave 90 did not provide
         regulation-down services as dispatched; Enforcement confirmed that Mojave 90 did not
         provide those services during those 110 hours.

                14.    By selectively avoiding regulation-down awards during these combined
         262 hours, Terra-Gen (through its relevant subsidiaries) was unjustly enriched in the total
         amount of $681,007 ($527,480 for Mojave 89 and $153,527 for Mojave 90). This
         represents Terra-Gen’s total net profit during these 262 hours—meaning, total energy and
         regulation award payments minus charges incurred for not following CAISO’s
         regulation-down dispatch signals in real time.
                                                     3
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026




                C.     Terra-Gen’s compliance reporting obligations

                15.     In 2021, Terra-Gen reached a settlement with Enforcement in an earlier
         investigation arising from conduct unrelated to this Investigation.4 The Commission-
         approved Stipulation and Consent Agreement (Prior Settlement) required Terra-Gen to:
         (a) pay a civil penalty; (b) make disgorgement; and (c) submit two annual compliance
         monitoring reports to Enforcement. Among other things, these compliance reports were
         required to “identify any known violations of the CAISO Tariff or Commission
         regulations during the applicable period, including a description of the nature of the
         violation and what steps were taken to rectify the situation.”

                16.     On September 1, 2022, Terra-Gen submitted its First Compliance Report to
         Enforcement as required by the Prior Settlement. This Report did not disclose any
         violations of the Tariff associated with Mojave 89.

                 17.    However, three months before submitting the First Compliance Report, on
         June 2, 2022, the CAISO Market Monitor and the Former Vice President (and members
         of his business unit) had a phone call to discuss the Market Monitor’s concerns related to
         Mojave 89. These concerns involved Mojave 89’s failure to respond to CAISO
         regulation-down awards in the ancillary services market (i.e., the same conduct at issue in
         this Investigation).

                 18.    As evidenced by his internal email sent on September 1, 2022, the Former
         Vice President recognized that the Mojave 89 concerns raised by the Market Monitor
         constituted a violation of the Tariff. On the same day (September 1, 2022) that Terra-
         Gen was to submit its First Compliance Report to Enforcement (but before it was
         submitted), the Former Vice President alerted the Terra-Gen personnel responsible for
         assembling the First Compliance Report—including, among others, a Terra-Gen
         executive within the highest levels of the company (High Level Executive)—about the
         Market Monitor’s inquiry into Mojave 89. The Former Vice President wrote in the email
         that, “we did violate the tariff” (referring to the conduct that was the subject of the
         Market Monitor’s prior inquiry). (Emphasis added.) The High Level Executive withheld
         disclosure pending further internal discussion, despite the Prior Settlement requiring that
         it be reported in the First Compliance Report.

                19.    On September 13, 2022, following a referral from the Market Monitor
         about the practices of Mojave 89 in the ancillary services market, Enforcement sent a
         document preservation notice to Terra-Gen.

                20.    On October 6, 2022, Terra-Gen provided Enforcement with an Amended

                4
                The Commission approved the Stipulation and Consent Agreement in Terra-
         Gen, LLC, Docket No. IN21-7-000 (August 2, 2021).

                                                      4
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026




         First Compliance Report (Amended Report) that disclosed the Market Monitor’s inquiry
         into Mojave 89. Terra-Gen noted that it had submitted the First Compliance Report on
         September 1, 2022, and stated that “Terra-Gen’s senior management has since confirmed
         that representatives of Terra-Gen’s energy marketing group were contacted by the
         [Market Monitor] in May 2022 regarding the operation of Terra-Gen’s Mojave 89 hybrid
         wind and energy storage resource (Mojave 89 Resource) in the CAISO regulation
         market.” (Emphasis added.) This statement gave Enforcement the misleading
         impression that Terra-Gen did not know about the communications between the Market
         Monitor and the Former Vice President (and his TGP Energy team) until sometime after
         submission of the First Compliance Report. In fact, as discussed above, Terra-Gen
         personnel—including a member of senior management (the High Level Executive)—
         knew about the communications before the submission.

              21.    Finally, Terra-Gen stated in the Amended Report that its “senior
         management is in the process of determining whether any aspects of the operation of the
         Mojave 89 Resource in the regulation market may have violated the CAISO tariff.”

                D.     Terra-Gen’s improved compliance culture

                22.     Since the events giving rise to this Investigation, Terra-Gen has made
         substantial, positive changes to its internal compliance program.

                23.    Among other things, Terra-Gen has:

                a.     Terminated the employment of the Former Vice President who led TGP
                       Energy during the Relevant Period.

                b.     Established an internal energy market compliance function under the charge
                       of the company’s Chief Environment Health & Safety Officer.

                c.     Created a new position of “Director – Energy Markets Compliance,” to
                       oversee internal compliance functions specific to Commission regulations
                       and CAISO requirements (the individual initially holding this position has
                       since been elevated to Senior Director, Compliance & Project
                       Implementation, overseeing two compliance specialists primarily focused
                       on FERC and energy markets compliance).

                d.     Created a new position of “FERC EQR Compliance Specialist,” to ensure
                       accurate transactional reporting to the Commission, and tasked this
                       Specialist with reviewing and correcting prior company filings.

                e.     Created a new position of “Compliance Specialist, Energy Markets.”

                f.     Enhanced its policy on reporting suspected violations of Commission

                                                      5
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069         Filed Date: 04/07/2026




                     regulations and the CAISO Tariff.

               g.    Created a monthly survey that relevant employees (including all members
                     of senior management) are required to take regarding knowledge of any
                     actual or suspected violations of Commission regulations or the CAISO
                     Tariff.

               h.    Established an anonymous reporting tool through a third-party service for
                     employees to report suspected regulatory violations or concerns via a
                     website or hotline.

               i.    Hired outside counsel to conduct annual training (beginning in 2022) for
                     relevant employees on compliance with Part II of the Federal Power Act,
                     the Commission’s regulations, and the company’s FERC Compliance
                     Program Manual.

               j.    Engaged a third-party consultant to administer an in-person compliance
                     training in 2023 with respect to the CAISO market design and participation.
                     This third-party consultant was also engaged to develop annual computer-
                     based training modules for all relevant personnel (i.e., all personnel with
                     market scheduling responsibilities), with respect to CAISO market
                     participation and covering topics that include Commission regulatory
                     requirements. Terra-Gen required the same personnel to undertake a
                     CAISO-created computer-based training regimen on relevant market
                     requirements.

               k.    Updated its internal Code of Ethics to include an emphasized obligation to
                     report any suspected violations of the Code of Ethics and regulatory
                     requirements, and mandated training on the new Code of Ethics for all
                     current employees and all future new hires.

               l.    Engaged another third-party consultant to provide additional CAISO Tariff
                     compliance training, and to conduct a months-long comprehensive internal
                     compliance audit focused on CAISO Tariff compliance, which resulted in a
                     report that identified areas in which Terra-Gen could enhance its practices
                     and procedures, and recommended ways in which to do so.

               24.   Terra-Gen has cooperated fully in the Investigation.




                                                   6
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069          Filed Date: 04/07/2026




         III.   VIOLATIONS

                A.    Violations of the CAISO Tariff and the Commission’s Market
                      Behavior and Duty of Candor Rules

                25.    Terra-Gen admits that it violated CAISO Tariff sections 8.7, 34.13.1, and
         37.3.1.1, as well as 18 C.F.R. §§ 35.41(a) and (b).

                      1.     Violation of CAISO Tariff section 8.7

                26.   CAISO Tariff section 8.7 provides in relevant part: “Once the CAISO has
         given Scheduling Coordinators notice of the Day-Ahead and Real-Time Market Ancillary
         Service Awards and Ancillary Service Schedules, these awards and Schedules represent
         binding commitments made in the markets between the CAISO and the Scheduling
         Coordinators concerned . . ..”

                27.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) violated
         section 8.7 by disregarding its “binding commitments.” Instead, Terra-Gen (through its
         relevant subsidiaries) selectively and improperly declared outages for the Resources
         and/or disconnected the Resources from automatic generation control upon receiving
         regulation-down awards from CAISO at a time of high LMPs.

                      2.     Violation of CAISO Tariff section 34.13.1

                28.   CAISO Tariff section 34.13.1 provides in relevant part:

                Resources must:

                a.    unless otherwise stated in the Dispatch Instruction, comply with a
                      Dispatch Instruction immediately upon receipt;

                b.    respond to all Dispatch Instructions in accordance with Good Utility
                      Practice;

                c.    meet voltage criteria in accordance with the provision in the CAISO
                      Tariff;

                d.    meet any applicable Operational Ramp Rates;

                e.    respond to Dispatch Instructions for Ancillary Services within the
                      required time periods and (in the case of Participating Generators
                      providing Regulation) respond to [automatic generation control]
                      from the EMS;

                f.    if a time frame is stated in a Dispatch Instruction, respond to a
                                                     7
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026




                       Dispatch Instruction within the stated time frame; and

                g.     not intentionally generate above or below Dispatch Operating Target.

         (Emphasis added.)

                29.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) violated
         section 34.13.1 by deliberately disregarding certain of CAISO’s dispatch instructions—to
         wit, regulation-down awards during times of high LMPs—and choosing, instead, to
         declare outages and/or disconnect from automatic generation control to avoid paying the
         high prices. In these instances, there was no legitimate basis for taking outages or
         disconnecting the Resources from automatic generation control.

                       3.     Violation of CAISO Tariff section 37.3.1.1

                30.    CAISO Tariff section 37.3.1.1 provides in relevant part: “Market
         Participants must submit Bids for Energy, RUC Capacity and Ancillary Services and
         Submissions to Self-Provide an Ancillary Service from resources that are reasonably
         expected to be available and capable of performing at the levels specified in the Bid, and
         to remain available and capable of so performing based on all information that is known
         to the Market Participant or should have been known to the Market Participant at the time
         of submission.”

                31.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) violated
         section 37.3.1.1. by submitting bids in the day-ahead market with full knowledge that it
         planned to make the Resources unavailable in the real-time market (by declaring outages
         and/or disconnecting from automatic generation control) if CAISO made a regulation-
         down award when LMPs were high.

                       4.     Violation of 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(a)

                32.    The Commission’s Market Behavior Rule, 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(a), requires
         Sellers to “operate and schedule generating facilities . . . declare outages, and commit or
         otherwise bid supply in a manner that complies with the Commission-approved rules and
         regulations of the applicable market.”

                33.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) also
         violated § 35.41(a). As explained above, Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) did not
         operate the Resources, declare outages, or bid supply “in a manner that complies with the
         Commission-approved rules and regulations of the applicable market.” In particular,
         Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) disregarded certain of its obligations as a participant in
         CAISO’s ancillary services market, including the obligation to respond to all CAISO
         regulation-down awards through automatic generation control in real time. Terra-Gen
         (through TGP Energy) violated its obligations by selectively claiming unjustified outages

                                                      8
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069          Filed Date: 04/07/2026




         and removing the Resources from automatic generation control when doing so advanced
         its financial interests.

                      5.     Violation of 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(b)

                34.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen violated the Commission’s Duty of
         Candor Rule, 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(b), which requires a Seller to “provide accurate and
         factual information and not submit false or misleading information, or omit material
         information, in any communication with the Commission . . . unless Seller exercises due
         diligence to prevent such occurrences.” Terra-Gen violated this provision as follows:

               a.     Terra-Gen violated 18 C.F.R. § 35.41(b) by omission in its First
                      Compliance Report. As noted above, pursuant to the Prior Settlement,
                      Terra-Gen was obligated to report “any known violations of the CAISO
                      Tariff or Commission regulations during the applicable period.” The
                      Former Vice President wrote in an internal email sent on September 1,
                      2022, that Terra-Gen had violated the Tariff in connection with the conduct
                      identified in the Market Monitor’s inquiry. This email was sent to, among
                      others, the High Level Executive, who signed and verified under oath the
                      First Compliance Report. This email was sent a few hours before Terra-
                      Gen submitted the First Compliance Report to Enforcement. However,
                      Terra-Gen did not include the information in that Report.

               b.     Terra-Gen stated in its First Compliance Report that it “ha[d] not received
                      notice of other violations of the CAISO Tariff or the Commission’s
                      regulations during the applicable period.” This was misleading in light of
                      the information that Terra-Gen had received prior to submission of the First
                      Compliance Report.

               c.     In the Amended Report, Terra-Gen stated that it had submitted the First
                      Compliance Report on September 1, 2022 and that its “senior management
                      had since confirmed that representatives of Terra-Gen’s energy marketing
                      group were contacted by the [Market Monitor] in May 2022 regarding the
                      operation of Terra-Gen’s Mojave 89 hybrid wind and energy storage
                      resource . . ..” (Emphasis added.) This was misleading, because the
                      Market Monitor had contacted Terra-Gen in May 2022 and a member of
                      Terra-Gen’s senior management (the High Level Executive) was aware of
                      this hours before submitting the First Compliance Report. For example, in
                      the same September 1, 2022 email in which he stated that a violation of the
                      Tariff had occurred, the Former Vice President forwarded the Market
                      Monitor’s initial May 19, 2022 inquiry about the matter and acknowledged
                      his participation in a prior call with the Market Monitor to discuss the
                      Market Monitor’s inquiry into Mojave 89. This prior call occurred in June

                                                    9
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069             Filed Date: 04/07/2026




                       2022, long before the submission of the First Compliance Report.

                       Thus, by September 1, 2022, and prior to submitting the First Compliance
                       Report, the High Level Executive and other Terra-Gen personnel
                       responsible for assembling and submitting the First Compliance Report,
                       knew about the prior inquiry made by the Market Monitor. Indeed, in an
                       internal email sent on September 1, 2022, before submitting the First
                       Compliance Report to Enforcement, the High Level Executive (a)
                       acknowledged the Market Monitor’s prior inquiry into Mojave 89, but (b)
                       stated that Terra-Gen had a plan to not disclose the inquiry to Enforcement
                       in the First Compliance Report and, instead, supplement later if the Market
                       Monitor pursued the issue.

                d.     Last, Terra-Gen stated in its Amended Report that “senior management is
                       in the process of determining whether any aspects of the operation of the
                       Mojave 89 Resource in the regulation market may have violated the CAISO
                       tariff.” (Emphasis added.) This also was misleading, because before
                       submitting the First Compliance Report, the Former Vice President had
                       plainly stated in the September 1 email that Terra-Gen had violated the
                       Tariff. Even if others at Terra-Gen did not take his statement at face value,
                       the Former Vice President’s statement qualified as reason enough to believe
                       that Terra-Gen “may” have violated the Tariff.

               35.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen did not exercise due diligence in
         connection with these misstatements and omissions.

                B.     Violation of Section 222 of the Federal Power Act and the
                       Commission’s Anti-Manipulation Rule

                 36.    Section 222 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. § 824v) and the
         Commission’s Anti-Manipulation Rule promulgated thereunder (18 C.F.R. § 1c.2)
         broadly prohibit fraudulent and manipulative practices within the nation’s interstate
         electricity markets. In relevant part, the Rule provides: “It shall be unlawful for any
         entity, directly or indirectly, in connection with the purchase or sale of electric energy . . .
         subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission,” to “employ any device, scheme, or artifice
         to defraud,” or to “engage in any act, practice, or course of business that operates or
         would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any entity.”

                37.    Enforcement determined that Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) engaged in
         a “scheme,” “practice, or course of business” during the Relevant Period that operated as
         a fraud on CAISO and its ancillary services market. As detailed above, the Former Vice
         President developed a strategy consisting of selectively exiting the CAISO real-time
         ancillary services market by declaring outages for the Resources and/or disconnecting the
         Resources from automatic generation control if—and only if—CAISO directed Terra-
                                                       10
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069           Filed Date: 04/07/2026




         Gen (through TGP Energy) to purchase electricity from the grid (through a regulation-
         down award) at a time of high LMPs. The Former Vice President directed the employees
         under his supervision to engage in the manipulative conduct.

                38.     This scheme included bidding for ancillary services in the day-ahead
         market with the intention of submitting illegitimate outages and/or disconnecting from
         automatic generation control in unfavorable economic conditions. By selectively
         participating in the ancillary services market—that is, by reaping the profits of
         regulation-up awards and simultaneously avoiding regulation-down awards when the
         LMPs were high—Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) was able to maximize its profits and
         minimize or eliminate the risks that are naturally attendant to participation in the CAISO
         ancillary services market.

                39.     Terra-Gen (through TGP Energy) received $681,007 in unjust profits from
         CAISO, but refused to deliver in real-time when economic conditions did not suit its
         financial interests.

                40.     The evidence, moreover, shows unequivocally that Terra-Gen (through
         TGP Energy) acted with the intention of defrauding the market, i.e., with scienter. The
         Former Vice President calculated that Terra-Gen would make more money by offering
         bids into the day-ahead market, and then avoiding regulation-down awards in the real-
         time market through unjustified outages and/or disconnecting from automatic generation
         control, as opposed to complying with the Tariff and fulfilling all ancillary services
         awards under all conditions. The Former Vice President directed his team via email to
         engage in this unlawful scheme: “If CAISO signals the battery to regulate down in a high
         pricing even[t], we will leave the market, resulting in only a small portion of lost
         revenue.”

                 41.    Additional evidence that Terra-Gen acted with scienter is provided by
         contemporaneous internal emails demonstrating that the Former Vice President and his
         team would not engage in the scheme if they believed that CAISO was “watching.” For
         example, in an email sent to the Former Vice President on July 10, 2021, a member of his
         business team reported that Terra-Gen had incurred several thousands of dollars in losses
         as a result of a CAISO regulation-down award. This employee explained that because
         “CAISO was carefully watching our battery,” the team “did not have much opportunity to
         leave the market to prevent” the losses. This proves that Terra-Gen (through certain TGP
         Energy personnel) knew that its actions were in violation of Commission regulations
         and/or the CAISO Tariff and actively took steps to avoid detection.

                 42.    Last, the CAISO ancillary services market is a Commission-regulated
         interstate market that is subject to the Commission-approved Tariff, and, therefore, the
         manipulative conduct described herein was carried out “in connection with the purchase
         or sale of electric energy . . . subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.”

                                                    11
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069            Filed Date: 04/07/2026




         IV.    REMEDIES AND SANCTIONS

                43.    For purposes of settling the claims released pursuant to Paragraph 51,
         Terra-Gen agrees with and stipulates to the facts set forth in Section II of this Agreement,
         admits to the violations described in Section III.A. of this Agreement, and neither admits
         nor denies the violation described in Section III.B. of this Agreement. Terra-Gen further
         agrees to undertake the obligations set forth in the following paragraphs.

                A.     Civil Penalty

                44.    Terra-Gen agrees to pay a civil penalty of $4,950,000 to the United States
         Treasury, by wire transfer, within ten days after the Effective Date of this Agreement, as
         defined herein.

                B.     Disgorgement

                 45.   Terra-Gen agrees to pay disgorgement within ten days of the Effective Date
         of this Agreement to CAISO, in the amount of $681,007, plus interest, calculated
         pursuant to section 35.19a of the Commission’s regulations, 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a (2025).
         This disgorgement shall be allocated by CAISO in its discretion for the benefit of CAISO
         customers, subject to prior approval by Enforcement of CAISO’s allocation plan.

                C.     Compliance

                46.     Terra-Gen agrees that it shall make annual compliance monitoring reports
         to Enforcement for two years following the Effective Date of this Agreement. The first
         annual compliance monitoring report shall be submitted one year after the Effective Date.
         The second annual compliance monitoring report shall be submitted one year from the
         date of the first report. After receipt of the second annual report, Enforcement may, at its
         sole discretion, require Terra-Gen to submit a report for one additional year.

                 47.     Each compliance monitoring report shall: (1) identify any known violations
         of Commission regulations or the CAISO Tariff that occurred during the applicable
         period, including a description of the nature of the violation and what steps were taken to
         rectify the situation; (2) describe all compliance measures and procedures Terra-Gen
         instituted or modified during the reporting period related to compliance with Commission
         regulations or the CAISO Tariff; and (3) describe all Commission-related compliance
         training that Terra-Gen administered during the reporting period, including the dates such
         training occurred, the topics covered, and the procedures used to confirm which
         personnel attended.

                48.    Each compliance monitoring report shall also include an affidavit executed
         by an officer of Terra-Gen stating that the report is true and accurate to the best of his/her
         knowledge.

                                                      12
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069             Filed Date: 04/07/2026




              49.    Upon request by Enforcement, Terra-Gen shall provide to Enforcement
         documentation supporting the contents of its reports.

         V.     TERMS

             50.     The “Effective Date” of this Agreement shall be the date on which the
         Commission issues an order approving this Agreement without material modification.

                 51.     Commission approval of this Agreement without material modification
         shall release Terra-Gen and forever bar the Commission from holding Terra-Gen, any
         affiliated entity, any successor in interest, and their respective agents, officers, directors,
         or employees, both past and present, liable for any and all administrative or civil claims
         brought by the Commission arising out of Enforcement’s determination of the specific
         violations addressed in this Agreement that arose on or before this Agreement’s Effective
         Date.

                52.    Failure by Terra-Gen to make the disgorgement, interest, or civil penalty
         payments, or to comply with the compliance obligations agreed to herein, or any other
         provision of this Agreement, shall be deemed a violation of a final order of the
         Commission issued pursuant to the Federal Power Act (FPA), 16 U.S.C. § 792, et seq.
         and may subject Terra-Gen to additional action under the enforcement provisions of the
         FPA.

                53.    If Terra-Gen does not make the required civil penalty and disgorgement
         payments described above within the times agreed by the parties, interest will be
         calculated pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a(a)(2)(iii) from the date that payment is due, in
         addition to the penalty specified above and any other enforcement action and penalty that
         the Commission may take or impose.

                54.     This Agreement binds Terra-Gen and its agents, successors, and assignees.
         This Agreement does not create any additional or independent obligations on Terra-Gen,
         or any affiliated entity, its agents, officers, directors, or employees, other than the
         obligations identified in this Agreement.

                55.     The signatories to this Agreement agree that they enter into this Agreement
         voluntarily and that, other than the recitations set forth herein, no tender, offer, or
         promise of any kind by any member, employee, officer, director, agent, or representative
         of Enforcement or Terra-Gen has been made to induce the signatories or any other party
         to enter into this Agreement.

                56.    Unless the Commission issues an order approving this Agreement in its
         entirety and without material modification, this Agreement shall be null and void and of
         no effect whatsoever, and neither Enforcement nor Terra-Gen shall be bound by any
         provision or term of this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by

                                                       13
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069            Filed Date: 04/07/2026




         Enforcement and Terra-Gen.

                 57.    In connection with the civil penalty provided for herein, Terra-Gen agrees
         that the Commission’s order approving this Agreement without material modification
         shall be a final and unappealable order assessing a civil penalty under section 316A(b) of
         the FPA, 16 U.S.C. § 825o-1(b). Terra-Gen waives findings of fact and conclusions of
         law, rehearing of any Commission order approving this Agreement without material
         modification, and judicial review by any court of any Commission order approving this
         Agreement without material modification.

                58.  This Agreement can be modified only if in writing and signed by
         Enforcement and Terra-Gen, and any modifications will not be effective unless approved
         by the Commission.

                59.    Each of the undersigned warrants that he or she is an authorized
         representative of the entity designated, is authorized to bind such entity, and accepts this
         Agreement on the entity’s behalf.

                 60.    The undersigned representative of Terra-Gen affirms that he or she has read
         this Agreement, that all of the matters set forth in this Agreement are true and correct to
         the best of his or her knowledge, information and belief, and that he or she understands
         that this Agreement is entered into by Enforcement in express reliance on those
         representations.

               61.    This Agreement is executed in duplicate, each of which so executed shall
         be deemed to be an original.




                                                      14
Document Accession #: 20260407-3069   Filed Date: 04/07/2026

   Document Content(s)
   IN26-2-000.docx...........................................................1
