Wales & Western region -
Network Rail
Investigation report
28 May 2024
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Executive summary                                                                                                                  5
    Context for our investigation into Network Rail’s contribution to train performance
    in Wales & Western ....................................................................................................... 5
    Summary of our investigation findings ........................................................................... 5

1. Investigation background                                                                                                      19
    Region description ....................................................................................................... 19
    ORR action to date and purpose of investigation ........................................................ 19

2. Analysis of train service performance in Wales & Western                                                                      23
    Major changes in the region ........................................................................................ 23
    Wales & Western compared to national performance ................................................. 24
    Western route and Wales route compared .................................................................. 26
    Types of Network Rail-attributed delay ........................................................................ 27
    Other factors driving increased Network Rail delay ..................................................... 29
    Key factors identified from our analysis of train performance ...................................... 33

3. Wales & Western’s leadership and governance                                                                                   34
    Leadership ................................................................................................................... 34
    Governance ................................................................................................................. 35
    The impact of governance and accountability arrangements on performance ............ 38
    Cross-industry alignment ............................................................................................. 39

4. Network Rail’s management of railway assets to support performance                                                            41
    Asset management capability ...................................................................................... 41
    Assessment of overall asset condition......................................................................... 42
    Asset data ................................................................................................................... 43
    Renewals ..................................................................................................................... 44
    Maintenance delivery................................................................................................... 47
    Asset reliability............................................................................................................. 50
    Service Affecting Failures and Asset Reliability ........................................................... 50
    Overhead lines ............................................................................................................ 59
    Signalling and train detection ...................................................................................... 61




2
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

    Access ......................................................................................................................... 62
    A strategic plan for asset reliability .............................................................................. 64
    Mitigating the impacts of climate change ..................................................................... 65

5. Network Rail’s performance management and network operation                                                                     68
    Application of performance management best practice ............................................... 68
    Readiness for Elizabeth Line and other major changes .............................................. 70
    The system-wide operational plan on Western lacks resilience. Network Rail is
    working to improve factors it understands and can control. ......................................... 79
    Performance and operational resourcing ..................................................................... 83
    Improving operations capability: 21st Century Operations and the use of
    operations decision support tools and technology ....................................................... 86
    Service recovery .......................................................................................................... 88
    Contingency plans ....................................................................................................... 92
    Incident learning .......................................................................................................... 94

6. Wales & Western’s plans to recover deteriorating train performance                                                              97
    Wales & Western’s review of the key factors that have contributed to deteriorating
    train service performance ............................................................................................ 97
    Development of a train performance recovery plan ..................................................... 99
    Delivery of the performance recovery plan ................................................................ 102
    Review of the performance recovery plan, its delivery and the realisation of
    benefits ...................................................................................................................... 103
    Review of the plan where it has not led to improvement ........................................... 106

7. Network Rail’s stakeholder engagement                                                                                         109


8. Cross-industry opportunities                                                                                                  119


9. Recommendations                                                                                                               120


Annex A:          Network Licence conditions of focus for the investigation                                                      124


Annex B:          Holding to account                                                                                             127




3
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Annex C:    Industry Roundtable Meeting                                         128


Annex D:    List of acronyms                                                    131


Annex E:    Comparison of Wales & Western asset base to network wide            134


Annex F:    ESG and TSR list with the number of sites with no planned removal
            date
                                                                                138




4
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Executive summary
Context for our investigation into Network Rail’s
contribution to train performance in Wales & Western
1.   The train service experienced by passengers and freight in Network Rail’s Wales &
     Western region has not been good enough. Performance has been worsening in the
     region since 2021. While this partly reflects a fall from the very high levels of
     performance during the COVID-19 pandemic, the deterioration in performance in
     Wales & Western has been worse than for other Network Rail regions and Network
     Rail-attributed delay (as measured by the Consistent Route Measure – Performance
     (CRM-P)) is now significantly worse than the levels achieved before the pandemic.

2.   Compared to performance at the end of 2019-20 (the end of the first year of the
     control period 6 (CP6) and prior to significant impact from the pandemic), the
     percentage of trains arriving on time fell from 65.1%% to 58.6% at the end of 2023-
     24. Train cancellations have risen from 2.6% to 4.9% during that period.

3.   We formally raised our concerns over train service performance with Network Rail in
     March 2022 and carried out enhanced monitoring – including requiring the region to
     develop a consolidated performance recovery plan. The region provided us with this
     in August 2022 and has reported on progress in delivering the plan since. However,
     delivery of the plan did not lead to any significant improvement in the region’s overall
     performance.

4.   We therefore, in November 2023, launched this investigation into delivery of train
     service performance in the region. The investigation centres primarily on three
     aspects of Network Rail’s compliance with its Network Licence: network
     management, asset management and sufficiency of resources.

Summary of our investigation findings
5.   Our investigation into Network Rail’s contribution to train service performance in
     Wales & Western has drawn on and scrutinised huge amounts of evidence provided
     by Network Rail and involved extensive engagement with the organisation and its
     stakeholders. From our investigation and engagement with Network Rail, it is clear
     there is a strong drive to turn performance around in the region.




5
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


We have not identified a singular issue driving poor train service
performance in Wales & Western which if resolved would turn around
performance.
6.   The deterioration in train service performance is driven by many different factors,
     including those within Network Rail’s control as well as wider industry factors and
     external causes (such as extreme weather). There is not one simple or quick
     solution. While there are some strengths in Network Rail’s management of
     performance, there are also opportunities to continuously improve its asset
     management and network operations to deliver improved performance. Many of the
     factors driving the current poor performance and the opportunities for improvement
     have been identified by Network Rail in its performance recovery plans.

Network Rail understands the primary causes of delay but does not yet
fully understand why delays are increasing for each incident; this limits
its ability to improve train performance.
7.   Wales & Western has analysed the causes of delay and quantified their impact
     (using delay attribution data). Understandably, it has focused on the factors attributed
     to Network Rail. We have verified Network Rail’s understanding with independent
     analysis. Network Rail has provided evidence that it has supported its analysis of
     delay attribution data with root cause analysis and is putting in place additional
     measures to improve this. In some cases, its understanding of root causes is still
     developing.

8.   The most significant contributors to Network Rail-attributed delay in the region
     include fatalities/trespass, track faults, points failures, severe weather, axle counter
     failures and delays associated with signalling. Wales & Western has produced
     improvement plans that include actions aimed at these sources of delay.

9.   While Network Rail largely understands the causes of delay, it still does not fully
     understand the operational factors that are driving increased delay associated with
     each incident. This means that it does not have all the information it needs to target
     the factors within its control effectively. Additionally, it does not yet have robust or
     reliable data on the time it takes to arrive on site and the time it then takes to fix
     assets.




6
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Recommendation NR1: Network Rail must improve its understanding of why the impacts
of incidents are increasing (with more delay for each incident) and then review its plans to
ensure they target relevant factors within its control. To improve primary delay and overall
performance outcomes, it should measure, report and manage quantifiable elements of
operational response that are within its control across the Wales & Western region.


Network Rail has developed and is delivering a tactical performance
recovery plan. It has recently built on this with emerging, more holistic
plans to manage performance in Western, which must be fully scoped
and delivered.
10. The Wales & Western region provided ORR a consolidated performance recovery
    plan bringing together various plans and initiatives in August 2022 in response to our
    scrutiny and has periodically iterated and revised it since. The plan identified
    timebound actions for each of the key areas of attributed delay. It has delivered well
    against the plan, completing 116 actions out of 140 as of December 2023. The plan
    has focused primarily on tactical, short-term interventions intended to provide a rapid
    boost to delivery for passengers and freight. These have delivered benefits but not
    reversed the decline in overall train performance due to new issues arising (including
    beyond Network Rail’s control) and the need for a more holistic plan to address long-
    term issues.

11. Wales & Western began developing an additional plan after we initiated our
    investigation, called Project Brunel, aimed at addressing longer-term asset
    sustainability, asset reliability and operational practices on the Western route out of
    Paddington. The plan includes supporting organisational and governance structures
    and promises a more holistic approach. From the evidence provided during the
    investigation, the project continues to be developed and remains to be fully scoped
    with clear, timebound milestones for all aspects of delivery. It is also unclear how its
    benefits and any structural improvements from the project will be sustained and
    incorporated into its wider performance recovery plan to deliver sustainable
    improvements across the wider route and region.

12. Wales & Western must now ensure that it continues to deliver its Performance
    Recovery Plan, and that it incorporates the more holistic approach being proposed
    for Project Brunel, to deliver sustainable improvements across the region.




7
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Recommendation NR2: Network Rail must establish clear timebound milestones for its
plan to sustainably improve asset reliability and operations on the Western route out of
Paddington (Project Brunel) and must track and report delivery against these. It must
incorporate the more holistic approach being proposed for Project Brunel into its Performance
Recovery Plan to deliver sustainable improvements across the region.


Network Rail’s refreshed Wales & Western leadership must focus on
strong performance governance, accountability and culture to drive
improved train performance.
13. Wales & Western has, previously, lacked sufficient focus on delivering strong train
    service performance to passengers and freight. The consolidated performance
    recovery plan that the region produced in August 2022 was only in response to
    scrutiny from ORR.

14. The region, formed in 2019, has had three different managing directors since its
    inception. Similarly, the Western route has had three route directors in that period.
    On the Wales route where new, focused leadership has been in place for longer,
    there are signs that this is starting to deliver improved contribution to train
    performance. This is supported by the views of stakeholders.

15. With safety remaining a prerequisite, the region’s new leadership team must ensure
    strong governance and accountability to drive a more performance-led culture and to
    ensure that risks are managed across the full range of the region’s activities. The
    regional accountability structure does not always drive joined-up decision making on
    performance, for example ensuring engineering decisions are cognisant of optimising
    train performance outcomes. Infrastructure delivery sits outside of the region’s route
    governance, with no clear, structural line of accountability from infrastructure delivery
    to the day-to-day delivery of train service. The region has recently reviewed its
    operating model and is considering devolving accountability for asset management
    as a result.

16. We consider that the high-profile closure of Nuneham Viaduct demonstrated
    substantial weakness in the region’s approach to understanding and managing the
    network effects of engineering decisions. It also demonstrated weakness in how it
    identifies and escalates performance risks both internally and with operators.




8
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Recommendation NR3: Wales & Western’s leadership must focus on strong
performance governance and accountability to drive a performance-led culture. In particular, it
must review whether its current structure, with infrastructure management separated from
route accountability, supports effective decision making and performance management. In the
past, Western has primarily been focused on long distance passenger and freight flows – in
recognition that there are now more regional stakeholders with different priorities (including
metro-style services), Wales & Western should drive an organisational and cultural change
programme to ensure it better manages its stakeholders’ varied and potentially competing
needs.


The likely impact on train performance of successive major changes on
the Western route was not fully exposed by Network Rail’s and
industry’s planning.
17. Cross-industry processes for the introduction of major changes did not fully
    understand and therefore plan for the cumulative whole-system effects of successive
    changes to the rail network and its operations, primarily but not exclusively on the
    Western route. These changes include the Great Western Electrification Project
    (GWEP), Crossrail, the introduction of Class 800 and 802 and Class 345 trains and a
    major increase in heavy freight from the Mendip quarries.

18. For example, while modelling was carried out to understand the impact of Elizabeth
    line timetable changes on performance, this did not account for the
    interdependencies between factors such as: increased wear on electrification assets
    that were not renewed under GWEP, changed service patterns and associated
    engineering access constraints, and changed operational plans (including
    unmodelled changes in train crew diagrams). As a result, it underestimated system-
    wide effects and the heightened risk of delay to passengers and freight.

19. Weaknesses in understanding the network as a system were compounded by the
    fragmented nature of the industry in specifying, planning and developing the network
    for both passenger and freight services. As a result, Network Rail’s operational
    (signalling and control) capability and some asset groups were not sufficiently
    upgraded to prepare for the changes made.

20. While Network Rail convened and chaired the cross-industry steering group (Event
    Steering Group (ESG)) for introduction of Elizabeth Line services to provide oversight
    and to plan for the smooth transition of timetable changes, this came too late to
    influence funding decisions or key enablers for these major changes. The service
    specifications and infrastructure plans were not fully coherent. The resulting timetable




9
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

     did not meet the original ESG performance requirement even after compromises
     were made by both operators and funders. We consider that greater clarity about the
     role, responsibilities and accountabilities of ESGs and their relationship to network
     and upgrade specification would help drive improvements in planning for major
     change.

21. The Industry Programme Management Office (PMO – chaired by Network Rail)
    carried out assurance of industry risks but there is no independent system-wide audit
    and assurance capability (as recommended by the ORR in its report into the May
    2018 Timetable).


Recommendation to industry IN1: Industry should review how it can ensure
processes for planning major service upgrades fully consider the cumulative impact of
successive major changes, including on asset condition and reliability, when identifying
supporting work required.




Recommendation to industry IN2: Industry should consider how to provide greater
clarity about the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities of the ESG and related
specification processes to help drive improvements in oversight of, and planning for, major
change.


Network Rail underestimated the impact of major change programmes
on Western’s assets and operations when planning for major network
change.
22. Network Rail recognises that it underestimated the impact that the new Elizabeth
    Line services and the increased Great Western Railway (GWR) and freight services
    would have on its assets and operations. It carried out a cross-industry programme of
    works to prepare for the introduction of Elizabeth Line services (Project Fusion) –
    with partial success – but it is now clear that a programme of additional engineering
    work and operational change is required to support train performance (see also
    recommendation NR2).




10
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Recommendation NR4: Network Rail must carry out a retrospective review of its
timetable modelling carried out for the introduction of Elizabeth Line services, to ensure it
learns lessons and applies these in planning for future major changes – such as the
introduction of HS2. Network Rail should consider whether its timetable modelling capability
should be augmented to take better account of the change’s impact on asset condition,
reliability and resilience – and therefore train performance – rather than core performance of
the timetable alone.


23. With the introduction of Elizabeth Line services and major increases in freight use on
    the Western route, there are more parties with competing interests in securing
    access to the network, running services and recovering services following disruption.
    The route should continue to mature its approach to managing the competing
    interests of its customers in an open and fair way. The region underestimated the
    complexity of the operational culture change that these changes would require,
    especially given the extra growth of Great Western services following earlier
    infrastructure enhancements (see recommendation NR3).

24. While the Western route has many forums for engaging with stakeholders, there is
    limited alignment between the different operators’ priorities and their approach to
    running train services. With limited compatibility of approaches, this makes it more
    difficult for the route in achieving better balanced outcomes for passengers and
    freight users.


Recommendation NR5: Network Rail should consider how best to drive greater cross-
industry engagement on delivering system-wide performance, including consideration of a
cross-industry senior governance forum to improve alignment on desired industry outcomes
and resolve disputes.


There is a backlog of maintenance and renewals work at critical
locations on the network, and a need for a strategic approach to
engineering access.
25. There are specific asset types and locations where the reliability of assets has
    decreased, and more maintenance and renewal is needed to deliver a reliable
    network.

26. In some areas assets are being managed at, or beyond, their original design-life
    which, whilst not unsafe, is impacting performance. For example, asset condition and




11
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

     reliability on certain freight branches has had a significant impact on freight
     performance (such as on the Tytherington Line when it reopened to traffic, prior to
     recent works). Further, Network Rail’s accelerated inspections on the overhead line
     equipment between Paddington and Airport Junction has revealed a significant
     number of defects that must be addressed.

27. Wales & Western has a renewals and maintenance backlog for certain assets. The
    region’s delivery of these works has been constrained by reduced access to the
    network to carry out both planned and unplanned work. This is a particular issue on
    the busiest parts of its network such as between Paddington and Airport Junction.
    This reduced access was foreseeable and should have been planned for.

28. The region must take a strategic approach to planning and optimising the efficiency
    of its access to ensure that it can establish and then maintain a sustainable approach
    to delivering the required engineering works. In doing so, it should review and adopt
    best practice, including in use of tools and technology.

29. Network Rail launched Project Brunel, as part of which it aims to address asset
    reliability problems between Paddington and Airport Junction and at strategic sites
    across the Western route. It is in the process of agreeing arrangements with
    operators for increased access windows to carry out the works. This must be scoped
    and delivered effectively to address backlogs of work, improve asset condition and
    reliability and therefore deliver a longer-term improvement in performance on a
    critical part of the route. As stated previously, Network Rail must now set out a
    timebound plan and milestones for the works that will be delivered.

30. We understand that the increased access as part of Project Brunel is to support its
    delivery (and is therefore shorter-term in nature). Any long-term additional access
    requirements need to be fully justified, properly planned and consider the needs of all
    users including freight.


Recommendation NR6: Network Rail must review its ongoing access requirements and
arrangements for delivering inspection, maintenance, renewal and repair works (building on
the approach being developed for Project Brunel) to ensure it can manage its assets in a
sustainable way while meeting the needs of its customers. This should include looking at best
practice being adopted in other routes which are similarly heavily-trafficked and assessing the
scope for better use of tools and technology.




12
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


The reliability of specific railway asset types has deteriorated in critical
areas with resulting effect on network delays.
31. There has been a marginal increase in the number of overall asset failures across
    the region but this broad picture masks underlying trends. For example, track asset
    failures have increased and are well above historical levels, particularly on the
    Western route, and a small number of highly-disruptive axle counter failures have
    occurred in the Thames Valley.

32. Asset reliability (as measured by the Composite Reliability Indicator (CRI), which is
    weighted by asset criticality) has been particularly affected by failures in heavily-
    trafficked, critical areas, where more repeat faults have occurred. On this measure,
    track reliability is particularly poor. Temporary speed restrictions (such as those to
    mitigate the risks of poor track condition) have continuously eroded performance and
    made performance recovery more difficult due to the tightly planned network.


Recommendation NR7: Network Rail should deliver on its plans to minimise causes of
delay arising from poor asset reliability. This should include continuing to target the root
causes that lead to temporary speed restrictions on any line of route and to ensure it is
maximising its use of leading indicators of future problems.


33. Notwithstanding the trends in number of failures for individual asset types, there has
    been a large increase in delays associated with asset failures across the board (as
    indicated by Delay per Incident (DPI)).

34. In particular, given the increased busyness of the route out of Paddington (where
    there has been a large increase in traffic and tonnage), the reliability of assets has
    become more important to counter increased delay from each incident (which is then
    propagated across Western). For example, high profile failures of overhead lines
    between Paddington and Airport Junction have led to large amounts of delay and
    highlighted the need for proactive interventions and a firmed-up asset management
    plan to support improved performance.

35. The need to ensure enhanced reliability of assets in the Thames Valley area to cope
    with the increased stress was foreseeable. It is now clear that a more significant
    programme of asset refurbishment, renewal and resilience works should have been
    delivered prior to introduction of Elizabeth Line services to support the changed
    railway operational environment and to protect performance. This is a specific focus
    of Project Brunel (see recommendation NR2)




13
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Recommendation NR8: In support of its strategic plan to improve asset reliability and
sustainability on the Western route out of Paddington (Project Brunel), Network Rail must
provide a clear, timebound plan for required renewal of overhead line headspans from
Paddington to Heathrow Airport Junction and a mitigation plan to ensure reliability until that
work is complete.


Network Rail should make sure it delivers its long-term plans to improve
resilience to climate change and extreme weather.
36. More frequent and more extreme weather conditions caused by climate change are
    already affecting the rail network and will continue to do so. Delays associated with
    weather have been increasing in Wales & Western.

37. Wales & Western’s approach to adaptation and resilience of assets to the impacts of
    climate change has improved during CP6, as evidenced through the development of
    improved Weather Resilience and Climate Change Adaptation (WRCCA) plans. It
    has recently updated its plans for CP7. The region has also provided evidence of
    specific actions being taken as part of its performance recovery plan. Overall, we are
    satisfied that Wales & Western is taking appropriate actions to improve resilience to
    climate change and extreme weather. It should continue to deliver on current
    workstreams, respond to emerging risks and deliver on its WRCCA plan for CP7. We
    are keeping this under close review.

The system-wide operational plan on Western lacks resilience but
Network Rail is working to improve factors it can control.
38. The network is significantly busier on the Great Western route out of Paddington,
    with 7% more trains running in 2023 than in 2018 between Paddington and
    Maidenhead. It now supports a cross-London service alongside pre-existing long
    distance, commuter and freight services. It is more vulnerable to disruption than
    before.

39. The system-wide operational plan on Western lacks resilience, including the
    timetable and resourcing of that plan by operators, and the effect was
    underestimated by modelling (as described above). When assets (such as track and
    overhead wires) fail, delays to services are magnified by the operational design of the
    timetable and the design of operator resourcing plans.

40. The integration of the uplifted Elizabeth Line timetable in May 2023 was a particular
    challenge in part due to the planning coinciding with industrial action. There is
    evidence that the region understands the issues with that timetable. Performance




14
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

     incidents attributed to the timetable have reduced in each of the four years. Network
     Rail remains focused on incrementally improving the resilience of the timetable to
     basic perturbation, within specification constraints and has provided evidence of
     changes made and their benefits. This needs ongoing support from passenger and
     freight operators.

41. Wales & Western should continue its collaborative work with Network Rail’s System
    Operator to analyse further opportunities for timetable improvement.


Recommendation NR9: Network Rail should continue to focus on ways to maximise
timetable resilience to basic perturbation within the possibilities of the existing specification,
learning from best practice in other routes.


Network Rail has conducted reviews of incidents on its network but it
must improve governance to ensure that lessons are fully learnt and
embedded, with focus on tackling complex, multilateral issues.
42. Our investigation has found that Network Rail has incident learning processes in
    place and that action delivery is both tracked and reported on. However, Network
    Rail’s customers have raised concerns about its ability to embed lessons from
    incidents and provide transparency of actions taken across industry.

43. From our review of incident learning reports, we have identified that most actions are
    completed in a timely fashion. There are, however, instances where learning has not
    been fully embedded. This includes, for example, lessons for the effective operational
    management of overhead wire failures and the management of stranded trains. In
    general, complex issues involving more than one party (and in particular more than
    one operator) appear less likely to be fully embedded.

44. In its review of the closure of Nuneham Viaduct, Network Rail has instigated reviews
    of the emergency engineering remedial works and safety decisions, but not of wider
    factors such as stakeholder communications and operational decisions.

45. These examples indicate that Network Rail must improve governance around
    incident learning reviews, in particular around these complex issues.




15
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Recommendation NR10: Network Rail must review how it leads learning from complex
and multilateral delay incidents to make sure that recommendations are fully and effectively
implemented, and knowledge is shared across the industry. The process must include
reviewing common themes across the portfolio of incident reviews.


Network Rail has had resource shortfalls in crucial areas supporting
performance, but is taking action to improve the sufficiency of its
operational and performance management resource and it should
continue to improve its capability in these areas.
46. Network Rail’s management of performance in Wales & Western has been impacted
    by shortfalls in its resources in critical areas. The region has taken action to address
    shortages in delay attribution staff, operations managers and performance managers.
    For example, it has increased headcount in its performance teams from 15 to 33 in
    Wales and from 42 to 50 in Western. It is also taking action to address current
    resource needs following implementation of its modernising maintenance
    programme, but should make sure that it does so at pace.

47. Network Rail recognises that core operational and signalling capability can be
    improved and this is a particular issue in Western due to loss of experienced staff in
    the Thames Valley Signalling Centre and relative inexperience of newly recruited
    staff.

48. Network Rail is currently taking forwards improvement under its ‘21st Century
    Operations’ programme and the region should review opportunities to accelerate its
    adoption of the programme. Stakeholders have expressed concerns about
    operational capability, and in particular the need to ensure effective and consistent
    use of technology and tools to support effective decision making.

49. The region appears to have recognised that its resource level has been problematic
    during CP6: in its plans for CP7, it describes that sufficient staffing levels are required
    in control and signalling roles to ensure review, learning and development activities
    can be carried out.




16
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Recommendation NR11: Network Rail should continue to deliver improved operational
and signalling capability, establishing and delivering against a clear timebound plan and
developing a suite of indicators to measure capability. To support development of its
operational capability, Network Rail should ensure that future significant operational changes
– such as the adoption of new decision support technologies – have appropriate business
change programmes (including consideration of human factors) to support their introduction.


There are opportunities to deliver improved train performance which
rely on cross-industry collaboration.
50. As supported by representations from stakeholders and our cross-industry
    roundtable, we consider that there are clear opportunities to deliver improved train
    performance which rely on cross-industry collaboration. These include strengthening
    contingency plans for dealing with delays while retaining flexibility in their application,
    further roll out of technology to improve incident response and service recovery (such
    as Integrated Train Service Recovery) and improving the robustness of implementing
    learning from the industry’s response to major delay incidents.

51. There are clear opportunities to learn from best practice elsewhere, not least given
    other regions have well established, similar operational challenges.

52. We consider it is an important enabler to set up a regional cross-industry forum
    focused on creating the strategic conditions that allow collaborative delivery of strong
    train performance. While Network Rail can take a lead, it is reliant on proactive input
    from across the industry.


Recommendation to industry IN3: Industry should consider how to drive forwards
improvements to train performance in Wales & Western which rely on cross-industry
collaboration. This should include securing greater strategic alignment and shared objectives
that can be cascaded to those delivering day-to-day service, strengthening contingency plans
for dealing with delays while retaining flexibility in their application, further roll out of
technology to improve incident response and service recovery and improving cross-industry
learning from incidents.




17
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Investigation report
Context, findings and recommendations




18
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



1. Investigation background
Region description
1.1    Network Rail’s Wales & Western region extends from London Paddington to
       Penzance via Reading, Swindon, Bristol, Exeter and Plymouth in the Western
       route and transports commuters to key locations
       such as Cardiff and Swansea in the Wales
       route. The region represents 17% of Network
       Rail’s railway infrastructure.

1.2    Passenger rail services in the Wales & Western
       region are operated by Great Western Railway,
       MTR Elizabeth Line, Transport for Wales,
       CrossCountry, Heathrow Express and Avanti
       West Coast.

1.3    The region serves leisure destinations in Wales
       and the South West which have seen increased
       demand following the Coronavirus (COVID-19)
       pandemic. Metro frequency services have
       become an increasing focus for the region with
       the Elizabeth Line running through the Thames
       Valley into London. The region also provides
       the rail to Heathrow airport. Rail freight services
       are also critical, particularly the movement of aggregates.

ORR action to date and purpose of investigation
1.4    Through our regular monitoring of Network Rail we identified a deterioration in
       train performance in Wales & Western in Period 1 of 2021-22. Following a
       significant number of track related service affecting failures in the first four periods
       of 2021-22 we began a period of enhanced monitoring from Period 5 with a focus
       on track asset performance as measured by the Track Reliability Index and the
       Composite Reliability Index. By Period 7 the focus widened to include overall train
       performance and we requested further evidence from the region to detail the
       approach being taken by Network Rail to address the negative trend.

1.5    We wrote to Network Rail in November 2021 as part of a network-wide
       performance update on the first half of 2021-22 and set out that we expected it to




19
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       deliver improvements to address the deterioration of train performance in Wales &
       Western.

1.6    In Period 13 of 2021-22, we formally escalated to Network Rail our concerns with
       train service performance delivery in Wales & Western, prompted by the prolonged
       decline in the consistent region measure for performance (CRM-P), a regulated
       measure for passenger train performance. We were concerned that if the region
       did not take sufficient action, CRM-P would breach the regulatory minimum floor
       that we set in our final determination for CP6 – the point below which we would be
       highly likely to consider a formal licence breach investigation.

1.7    Subsequently, we requested that Network Rail produce a consolidated regional
       performance recovery plan to provide assurance that appropriate actions were
       being taken to address poor performance. Following the development of Network
       Rail’s performance recovery plan, we met with the region’s route directors, finance
       director and performance leads every four weeks to review performance and
       delivery of the plan. We also carried out deep dives into specific issues impacting
       performance.

1.8    Our Annual Assessment of Network Rail 2021/22 (published in July 2022)
       highlighted again that performance in the region had declined more quickly than in
       other regions, noting that performance on the Wales route was of greatest
       concern. Our letter to Network Rail in November 2022 highlighted specific
       concerns with the region’s asset performance, increased delay and poor response
       to incidents.

1.9    Wales & Western provided us with a recovery plan at the point that it breached the
       regulatory floor for CRM-P in Period 4 of 2022-23. While it proceeded to make
       progress in delivering performance improvement actions, train performance
       continued to decline. In Period 11 of 2022-23, both passenger and freight
       performance had declined to unacceptable levels and were below the region’s
       initial worst case scenario forecasts presented in their recovery plan. We further
       escalated our concerns over the continued decline in train performance. In our
       Annual Assessment of Network Rail 2022-23 we set out our expectation that the
       region must deliver on its performance recovery plan, keeping it updated to make
       sure that it led to improved overall performance outcomes. We set out our
       expectation that the region must deliver on its performance recovery plan, keeping
       it updated to make sure that it led to improved overall performance outcomes.




20
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

1.10   In Period 7 of 2023-24, we advised Wales & Western that the severity and
       sustained nature of the performance decline was such that we would now consider
       further regulatory action.

1.11   On 29 November 2023, we wrote to Network Rail initiating an investigation into
       Wales & Western’s compliance with the Network Licence. We set out that the
       investigation would focus on any potential breach of licence conditions 1 (network
       management), 3 (sufficient resources) and 5 (asset management). If appropriate,
       other licence conditions would also be investigated. We have included these
       licence conditions in fuller detail at Annex A.

1.12   Our investigation has sought to ascertain if there is currently or has been a breach
       of the Network Licence in Network Rail’s Wales & Western region. We have
       assessed various factors including but not limited to:

       (a)   if best practice has been applied in performance management capability and
             system operation;

       (b)   the key factors contributing to the decline of train service performance; and

       (c)   the suitability and delivery of the performance improvement plan.

1.13   ORR has also reviewed external, wider industry factors that impact on Network
       Rail’s ability to deliver an effective and reliable service for passengers and freight
       customers.

1.14   As part of this investigation, we have drawn on a wide range of information. We
       have made use of pre-existing data and updates provided to us by Network Rail in
       connection with our routine activities of holding Network Rail to account. We have
       re-assessed the information previously provided to us by Wales & Western in
       response to our enhanced monitoring of its performance recovery plan. We have
       also asked Network Rail detailed questions to delve deeper into specific areas of
       concern, to provide status updates and to fill in gaps in our knowledge. We have
       followed up Network Rail’s submission of evidence with in-depth meetings with
       Network Rail’s subject matter experts and senior leadership. We have sought the
       views of stakeholders in the region, such as train and freight operating companies,
       and passenger representative organisations. We also held a roundtable meeting
       with Network Rail and senior industry leaders to understand the main industry-
       wide challenges impacting train performance in the region and opportunities for
       cross-industry work to improve performance.




21
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

1.15   The purpose of this report is to summarise our review of the information that has
       been provided to us and set out our findings and recommendations. We do this by
       firstly setting out our analysis of train service performance in the region, assessing
       the factors that have driven a deterioration in performance. We then consider in
       turn the region’s leadership and governance, how it has managed its assets, its
       performance management and operation of the network, the additional actions it
       has taken to recover train performance, and its engagement with stakeholders to
       meet their reasonable requirements. We have subsumed our consideration of the
       sufficiency of Network Rail’s resourcing within the report’s chapters on asset
       management, network management and performance recovery. We conclude the
       report with recommendations to Network Rail.

1.16   While our investigation and report has focused on Network Rail’s contribution to
       train performance, we recognise that delivering train service performance relies on
       cross-industry collaboration. In support of this we have also included in this report
       a summary of the industry roundtable meeting that we held in February 2024
       together with our recommendations that emerged from that discussion and
       industry-wide recommendations as a result of our investigation (Chapter 8 and
       Annex C).




22
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



2. Analysis of train service
   performance in Wales & Western
2.1    This chapter sets our analysis of the deterioration in performance outcomes,
       helping identify some of the specific areas that require investigation with the Wales
       & Western region.

Major changes in the region
2.2    The Wales & Western region has experienced significant change over the last ten
       years, particularly on the Western route. This has influenced performance trends
       in that time. These major changes can be divided into five broad phases:

       ●    Great Western electrification construction: Between 2014 and 2018 train
            service performance was disrupted by the construction phases of the Great
            Western Route Modernisation Programme This included electrification
            between London, Newbury, Bristol and Cardiff.

       ●    Electric trains introduced: The electrification programme was completed in
            late 2018. Along with the new infrastructure, new, faster, electric trains were
            introduced. However, the timetable was still based on the slower timings for
            high speed (HST) diesel trains. This helped to artificially and temporarily
            drive better punctuality.

       ●    Faster journey times and increased capacity realised: The timetable was
            changed in December 2019 to realise the benefits of the new infrastructure
            and electric trains. The benefits included more services, more connectivity
            and faster journeys – but the temporary punctuality improvements were
            degraded as a result.

       ●    COVID-19 pandemic: In March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic spread to the
            UK and successive lockdowns were implemented. Train service performance
            rapidly improved as there were fewer trains and passengers. As lockdown
            restrictions were eased, and passengers returned, performance declined.
            This train performance trend was replicated across Great Britain (although
            train service performance in Wales & Western declined faster than in other
            regions).

       ●    Introduction of the Elizabeth Line: In November 2022 the Elizabeth Line
            was integrated into the wider rail network for limited cross-London services.




23
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

             The timetable was recast, with increased service frequency and revised
             journey times, in May 2023. This timetable change also included changes to
             Great Western Railway’s services on the route.

2.3    We illustrate how these changes have related to On Time train performance on the
       Western route below:

Figure 2.1   Key changes impacting Western On Time, 2014-15 to 2023-24




2.4    Looking ahead, the construction of Old Oak Common station connecting the Great
       Western Main Line to the High Speed 2 line will generate further challenge for train
       performance.

Wales & Western compared to national performance
2.5    Train performance in all Network Rail regions has declined in the last three years.
       Wales & Western’s decline has gone further and faster. In the last year, On Time
       performance has stabilised in the other four regions. In Wales & Western the
       decline has continued (Figure 2.2).




24
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 2.2   Regional comparison of On Time, 2014-15 to 2023-24




2.6    The same is true of delay. Network Rail-attributed delay in Wales & Western has
       increased by 76% compared to 2014-15, the worst of any region.

2.7    To create a fairer comparison between regions, we used the Consistent Region
       Measure of Performance (Passenger) (CRM-P) to regulate Network Rail during
       CP6 and are using an equivalent supporting measure in CP7.

2.8    Since 2020-21, every region’s CRM-P has shown a similar shaped trend with a
       rapid improvement and then reversal, related to the pandemic. Most regions have
       now shown some sign of stabilising. Wales & Western’s CRM-P decline has been
       the sharpest and continues; it went from having the lowest (best) CRM-P of any
       region, to having the highest (Figure 2.3).




25
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 2.3   Regional comparison of CRM-P, 2014-15 to 2023-24




Western route and Wales route compared
2.9    Both operator and Network Rail delay has been increasing in the region, although
       Network Rail’s delay has been increasing slightly faster.

2.10   On the Wales route, operator delay has primarily driven the increase. Both
       operator and Network Rail delay increased after lockdown restrictions were eased.
       However, in the last 18 months, Network Rail delay has been stable, while
       operator delay has been increasing. In contrast, on the Western route, Network
       Rail delay has primarily driven the increase.

2.11   Our analysis of Network Rail’s delay in the region shows that it has been driven by
       the Western route, mainly because of its larger size. When we apply our regulatory
       measure, CRM-P, to compare the two routes, Western is still worse. Wales’s
       CRM-P has stabilised and started to fall, while Western’s CRM-P has continued to
       increase (Figure 2.4).




26
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 2.4   Wales and Western routes’ CRM-P, 2014-15 to 2023-24




Types of Network Rail-attributed delay
2.12   In 2014-15, Network Rail caused about 1.2 million delay minutes in the region. By
       2023-24, Network Rail was causing over 2 million delay minutes per year
       (Figure 2.5).




27
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 2.5   Wales & Western delay minutes Moving Annual Total (MAT), 2014-15 to
             2023-24




       Delay cause codes: track, weather, non-track assets (NTA), network management/other
       (NMO), external

2.13   The biggest increases in Wales & Western’s Network Rail-attributable delay
       minutes since 2014-15 in absolute terms have been in non-track assets (250k
       more minutes) and weather (206k more minutes). However, in relative terms track
       delay minutes have increased the most, by 238%, in that time. Weather delay
       minutes increased by 172%. The regional headlines are:

       ●     All of Western’s delay codes have increased since 2014-15. Track, weather
             and non-track assets have increased by the largest absolute amounts. Track
             and weather experienced the largest relative increase with track increasing
             by approximately 317% and weather by 209%.

       ●     The effects of track quality on performance may be even greater than this
             increase suggests: an increase in temporary speed restrictions could
             augment the effect of delay incidents in other categories as they use up
             allowances in the timetable that act as the network’s resilience to
             perturbation.

       ●     The Wales route has also experienced increased delay across all its delay
             categories, and by about the same amount in relative terms as Western




28
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

            route. However, as it has fewer trains and tracks, it has contributed a lower
            proportion of the region’s delay. Weather and external delay have seen the
            biggest relative increase in delay. Network management/other (for example,
            delays that are not physical infrastructure failures, such as operational
            decisions) and external delay were responsible for the largest absolute
            increase in delay. Track causes a much lower proportion of delay in Wales
            than Western.

       ●    We compared Wales & Western to Network Rail’s other four regions. Delay
            in those four regions combined was 13% higher than it was ten years ago.
            Across these four regions, weather has seen the biggest increase in delay
            (113%), external delay has increased by 31%, and track delay increased by
            12%. Non-track assets and network management/other have seen small
            decreases.

Other factors driving increased Network Rail delay
2.14   The increase in delay being caused by each incident in the Wales & Western
       region is a key change. Whole industry delay and incidents have both increased,
       but delay has increased more quickly than incidents. In other words, an average
       incident is causing more delay than it historically has.

2.15   While Network Rail largely understands the causes of delay in the region, it has
       not been able to fully explain the reasons for the increase in delay per incident. We
       have undertaken our own analysis to aid us in focusing this investigation.

2.16   Figure 2.6 (below) shows that Network Rail attributable incidents in the region,
       across all delay categories, have remained about the same. However, overall
       delay from the incidents has increased. Wales & Western’s trend line shows
       greater relative increase in delay than other regions. In contrast, operator incidents
       and delay from them are increasing in proportion as shown in Figure 2.7
       below. This implies that increased delay is not simply a function of adding more
       train services to the network (and is therefore not only linked to the increase in
       Great Western Railway, Elizabeth Line and freight services).




29
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 2.6   Wales & Western Network Rail-attributable delay and incidents, 2014-15
             to 2023-24




Figure 2.7   Wales & Western Operator-attributable delay, 2014-15 to 2023-24




30
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

2.17   We understand that the different trends between Network Rail and operator
       incidents is mainly driven by the types of incidents. A major factor is that a
       Network Rail incident - for example a track or signalling issue – will often require
       operatives to access the track.

2.18   For the safety of workers, this activity now requires trains to be temporarily
       stopped at an appropriate time. More trains operate on the line than historically –
       especially since the increase in Great Western Mainline timetable in 2019 and the
       introduction of Elizabeth Line services in 2022 and 2023 – and there is little drop-
       off in service levels outside the peak (reflecting greater leisure travel on the
       Western route than prior to the COVID-19 pandemic).

2.19   Therefore, it is now harder for Network Rail to identify a suitable gap to stop trains
       in order to allow workers to access the track. Additionally, stopping trains creates a
       greater bottleneck than before these service changes.

2.20   On some occasions the issue cannot be fully rectified immediately, and to allow
       movement of trains the network temporarily reopens with lower capability (such as
       a speed restriction or partial line closure). Every train will be delayed in this
       circumstance, and this is magnified by greater traffic levels which also mean less
       available resilience in the system. A gap then needs to be found for all trains to be
       stopped again, to effect full repairs. The difficulty in finding a suitable gap may
       result in this being left until after passenger traffic levels reduce, in the late
       evening.

2.21   On the operator side, access to the track is less frequently required. It is relatively
       unusual, for example, for a significant train fault to require a technician to climb
       down to the track to inspect a unit.

2.22   If the increase in delay for each event was being caused purely by resilience of the
       timetable itself, we would expect delay arising from each operator incident to have
       increased. However, Figure 2.7 above clearly shows this is not the case, hence
       our conclusion that it is not solely the increase in trains on the network that is
       responsible for increased delay.

2.23   The increased DPI trend is starkest on the Western route, where it has increased
       consistently since 2021. Before then, there was a consistent correlation between
       incidents and delay. On the Wales route, there was a small increase in DPI over
       the same period, but this has now stabilised.

2.24   The increase in DPI on Western route varies between different categories of
       incident. For external delay, Wales & Western DPI has increased by 34%, much




31
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       more than any other region. The same is true for track DPI, which has increased
       by 238%.

2.25   We have also identified notable trends in the profile of primary and
       reactionary delay for the region, where:

       ●     “Primary delay” is delay to trains caused directly by an ongoing performance
             incident.

       ●     “Reactionary delay” is delay caused by services that are running late as a
             consequence of the incident, rather than being caused by the incident itself.

Figure 2.8   Wales & Western Network Rail-attributed primary & reactionary delay

        Wales and Western primary and reactionary delay
        Network Rail attributable passenger delay MAT
       1,200,000
                                                                                    Reactionary
                                                                                    delay, 1.1m
       1,000,000

           800,000
                     0.7m                                                           Primary delay,
                                                                                    0.7m
           600,000

           400,000
                     0.3m
           200,000

                 0
                     14-    15-   16-   17-   18-   19-   20-   21-   22-     23-
                     15     16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23      24


2.26   Primary delay on the region due to Network Rail-caused incidents remained
       essentially stable during the pandemic, then nearly doubled through the year
       2021-22. Network demand patterns changed in that year, but this also coincided
       with a period of time in which rules for accessing the track changed and, for safety
       reasons, track workers were required to stop all train movements to allow them to
       work (as described above, having previously been allowed to undertake some
       work in between trains).




32
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

2.27   Primary delay levels have remained elevated but been reasonably stable since
       2021-22, despite the introduction of Elizabeth Line services; again, this suggests
       that the intensity of the timetable is not a major factor in primary delay levels.

2.28   In absolute terms, reactionary delay reached the equivalent of its highest pre-
       pandemic level at the beginning of 2023-24. It has accelerated in the most recent
       year, which is discussed in Chapter 5 of the report but broadly appears to relate to
       the network’s readiness to manage further increases in traffic levels from May
       2023 and changes to operator resourcing plans.

2.29   However, the ratio of primary to reactionary delay remains significantly less than it
       was prior to the pandemic (excluding 2019-20, when for most of the year faster
       electric trains were operating in a timetable designed for diesel units). This implies
       that, while the operating plan can be improved, it is not the main driver of
       performance issues on the region.

Key factors identified from our analysis of train
performance
2.30   Train performance in Wales & Western has declined in the last three years. It has
       declined much faster than in Network Rail’s other four regions. The main, but not
       only, contributor has been the increase in Western route’s Network Rail delay.

2.31   The number of failure incidents has not increased for most asset types. However,
       there are exceptions, most notably track, whose failure rate is higher than before
       the pandemic.

2.32   However, the delay minutes resulting from failures of each asset type has
       increased faster than the failure rate. For track, the delay has increased by 238%
       since 2014/15. Weather delay has increased by 172%. Other categories have
       caused larger delay increases in absolute terms.

2.33   We also conclude that worsening overall performance is the result of more than
       simply having more trains in the timetable. In other words, this is both an
       operational and an asset-related challenge.




33
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



3. Wales & Western’s leadership and
   governance
Leadership
3.1    Leadership is essential to any organisation’s setting of priorities. A governance
       structure that provides focus on – and line of sight to – the priorities is key to
       success in achieving them.

3.2    The Wales & Western region has, previously, lacked sufficient focus on delivering
       strong train service performance to passengers and freight. It provided ORR a
       consolidated performance recovery plan bringing together various plans and
       initiatives in August 2022 in response to our scrutiny and has periodically iterated
       and revised it since.

3.3    A lack of continuity has played a part. The region was formed in 2019 as part of
       Network Rail’s ‘Putting Passengers First’ devolution. Since then, it has had three
       different regional managing directors, its most senior role holder directly
       accountable to Network Rail’s Chief Executive. The current Wales route director
       started in 2022 and the Western route has had three different route directors since
       2019, with the current incumbent assuming the role in June 2023.

3.4    On Western, instability has noticeably impaired the region’s organisational clarity
       and consistency of focus that was needed to prepare and adapt to the significant
       operational changes experienced. For example, the actions identified as part of
       Project Fusion (a project bringing operators and Network Rail together to prepare
       for Elizabeth Line operations on the Western route, which is discussed further in
       Chapter 5) were, in some cases, not successfully followed through to completion.

3.5    The evidence provided by Network Rail in response to ORR’s investigation
       questions described many local and departmental processes in place to identify
       and progress individual interventions to address train performance. However, it
       has not been sufficiently evident to us, nor to many key stakeholders, how the
       region’s overarching strategy and governance for delivering good train
       performance provides clear line-of-sight, coming together at the higher levels of
       accountability.

3.6    The fundamental and exceptional change in this route’s operational characteristics
       has taken place at the same time as significant challenges that have affected all




34
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       regions: the COVID-19 pandemic, industrial action and the adjustments needed
       following regional devolution. Leaders and managers at all levels have therefore
       had to allocate additional time and attention to implement mitigating arrangements
       for these.

3.7    We recognise that effective leadership can take time to make an impact in the
       context of infrastructure management, as it is dependent on alignment of effort,
       advanced planning, integration of processes and shaping the necessary
       organisational culture. Where the region’s leadership has had time and opportunity
       to provide clear direction, accountability and effective governance, such as on the
       Wales route, this has had a notable impact in arresting the decline in Network
       Rail’s contribution to train performance.

3.8    On the Wales route, there are signs that cultural changes made are starting to
       deliver improved contribution to train performance. This is supported by the views
       of stakeholders. A specific, new tailored framework called the “7 Rs” underpins all
       relevant discussions in the route. These visibly permeate through the route’s
       activities and lend a consistent focus.

3.9    While there are positive examples of leadership and cultural change in the region,
       Wales & Western should also consider what more it could learn from best practice
       in other Network Rail regions and routes which have undergone change to adopt
       effective performance-focused working cultures. Stakeholders speak highly of the
       performance-culture on the Anglia route, which supports the Eastern operations of
       the Elizabeth Line. The Central route in the North West & Central region has
       succeeded in reversing poor train performance, underpinned by a noticeable
       change in its performance culture as a result of a performance recovery project.

Governance
3.10   In governance terms, the Wales & Western region is a matrix structure of “value
       hubs”. There are four “enabling hubs” (core, cross-regional functions of finance,
       investment, human resources and communications) and three “delivery hubs”
       (Western Value Delivery, Wales Value Delivery and Infrastructure Value Delivery)
       which are comprised of the functions providing the operational railway on a day-to-
       day basis. This is shown in Figure 3.1 below.




35
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 3.1   Wales & Western regional organogram




3.11   The assurance principles in use are based on Network Rail’s standard “three lines”
       model of:

       ●     management assurance;

       ●     functional assurance & corporate oversight; and

       ●     internal/external audit.

3.12   We have seen evidence that Wales route’s governance has a clear line of sight
       that it uses to instil, as it describes it, a “programme management mentality to the
       delivery of performance and route business”. The Wales route has an app called
       the “Strategic Improvement Platform” (SIP), which it uses to log, track and report
       on activity and milestones towards its improvement plan. This project management
       app looks to be a relatively comprehensive technological platform supporting its
       improvement processes. When projects are identified and incorporated, this
       supports the route enacting effective oversight of improvement activities.

3.13   Western route uses a more traditional “Performance Improvement Plan” tracker,
       with a Power BI dashboard, to track performance improvement activity.
       Accountability for the tracker sits centrally with the Performance Improvement
       Managers, who update from various meetings they attend across the route.
       Consistent with a general lack of obvious network performance focus or culture
       within the current governance structure, it is not clear that there is a focal point
       within the route where people are either held to account for delivering these plans or




36
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

        able to escalate issues (although we note that there are processes being put in
        place through Project Brunel).

3.14    We highlight that the Local Railways Initiative is a positive example of the way that
        the Value Hub approach can work, further devolving responsibility through the
        region.


Case study: local railways initiative

Wales & Western has developed ‘Local railways’ initiatives in Devon and Cornwall, and
North Wales. These are intended to realise benefits from bringing infrastructure
management and train operations closer together by removing organisational boundaries
as far as possible. Leadership is provided through a combined local management team
with a deep understanding of the local railway. The leadership is empowered to make
decisions that maximise cross-industry outcomes.

Network Rail reports that the initiative is having a positive impact. Reported innovations
include the introduction of an app for drivers to report non-urgent track quality issues and a
joint 'sandpit' training area, helping train crew understand physical railway infrastructure
better. Network Rail reports that the initiative has improved access to maintain the track
and that it has therefore been able to remove temporary speed restrictions more quickly.

There has been positive feedback from industry partners. Transport for Wales (TfW) said
that it was a “key positive to highlight”. In addition, Network Rail and TfW are planning to
extend this approach to the West Wales region.

There is more to do. A freight customer has reported concerns that their interests may be
compromised in this initiative. Network Rail recognise this threat and is working hard to
minimise this risk.

This template might provide the basis for more of the relatively simple and less busy areas
on the region, to allow greater organisational focus on the core of the network.


3.15    We consider there are two notable points of potential weakness within the
        structure, that are pertinent to ongoing performance problems, set out below.




37
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


The impact of governance and accountability
arrangements on performance
3.16   “Infrastructure Delivery” sits on its own in the regional governance structure. It is
       not part of one or both routes, nor is it an ‘enabling’ (i.e. supporting) value hub
       within the Wales & Western governance matrix. As such there is no clear,
       structural line of accountability between Infrastructure Delivery and the day-to-day
       delivery of the train service.

3.17   In detailed discussions on governance, the region described that members of this
       value hub took part in all relevant route-led discussions and that the Route
       Directors holistically own and represent their routes. Successful delivery of
       scorecards requires all parts of the route to work.

3.18   This approach separates significant infrastructure and maintenance work from
       operations, further splitting track from train: train operators’ daily relationships are
       with the route functions within Network Rail and the approach sees Infrastructure
       Delivery isolated from the effects their work has on passengers and freight.

3.19   The separation is emphasised in overarching high-level meeting governance. The
       “Infrastructure Review” board is structurally parallel to the Wales Route and
       Western Route Periodic Business Review meetings, and reports to the “Regional
       Significant Scheme Review” – which has only a dotted line to the "Regional Value
       Board”. We have not seen evidence of a feedback loop where the contribution of
       infrastructure delivery schemes to ongoing operational and performance issues is
       considered at a senior level.

3.20   Evidence we have reviewed in respect of the failure of Nuneham Viaduct in early
       2023 suggests that this separation contributed to a situation where operators were
       given only three days’ notice that the condition of the viaduct made it at risk of
       closure. This is discussed in greater detail in Chapter 4 of this report, which
       includes a case study of the Nuneham Viaduct issues.

3.21   Additionally, in light of the significant increase in tonnage and train services using
       the Western route, any separation of accountability between operators and
       engineering is likely to lead to a delay in sharing and identifying asset trends that
       need to be resolved. The asset management sections of this report and the
       Elizabeth Line readiness sections describe the consequences of this.

3.22   Wales & Western has recently reviewed its operating model against its core
       purpose. It is assessing structural changes to its infrastructure leadership and




38
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

        governance as a result, focused on devolving capability and accountability to route
        level. The region has also introduced two interim roles, a regional infrastructure
        director to enhance provision of engineering and asset management oversight,
        and a chief of staff focused on assurance and strategic leadership support.


Recommendation NR3: Wales & Western’s leadership must focus on strong
performance governance and accountability to drive a performance-led culture. In particular, it
must review whether its current structure, with infrastructure management separated from
route accountability, supports effective decision making and performance management. In the
past, Western has primarily been focused on long distance passenger and freight flows – in
recognition that there are now more regional stakeholders with different priorities (including
metro-style services), Wales & Western should drive an organisational and cultural change
programme to ensure it better manages its stakeholders’ varied and potentially competing
needs.



Cross-industry alignment
3.23    We have found that, while the Western route has many forums for engaging with
        stakeholders, there is an absence of a single over-arching, senior cross-industry
        forum that brings the many parties responsible for delivering train performance
        together to collaborate (and align initiatives) on driving improvements.

3.24    Senior-level interface meetings in place on Western route and at regional level
        have primarily been bilateral, between Network Rail and individual operators. This
        may have been adequate historically, with GWR operating services both on main
        and relief lines from Paddington. However, the reconfiguration of services to
        incorporate the Elizabeth Line and a significant increase in freight volumes means
        that it is no longer sufficient.

3.25    In Wales, the situation is slightly different as there is a tripartite agreement in place
        between TfW Rail, Network Rail and Amey (who provide the Core Valley Line
        infrastructure) – but input from other operators, especially freight, is still limited.

3.26    The industry roundtable that ORR convened on 14 February 2024 was powerful
        because it brought senior stakeholders from Network Rail, train operating
        companies (TOCs) and freight operating companies (FOCs) together in one room.
        This opened up discussion about strategic alignment and exposed some of the
        different drivers of behaviours. A summary of that roundtable is included at Annex
        C.




39
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

3.27   Given the complexity of operations on the Great Western Mainline in particular, as
       a pre-condition for successful performance delivery there must be a level of
       strategic alignment between parties on how to resolve key performance
       challenges, including resolving disputes. From that point, senior stakeholders can
       drive necessary discussions with their own funders and/or shareholders.

3.28   More importantly, they can then enable a collaborative performance culture,
       communicating aligned goals effectively to their teams. This will enable better and
       more successful frontline relationships and improved network results.


Recommendation NR5: Network Rail should consider how best to drive greater cross-
industry engagement on delivering system-wide performance, including consideration of a
cross-industry senior governance forum to improve alignment on desired industry outcomes
and resolve disputes.




40
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



4. Network Rail’s management of
   railway assets to support
   performance
4.1    Wales & Western has a licence requirement to adopt and apply asset
       management policies and criteria which comply with the Network Management
       Duty, which includes operating, maintaining, renewing and replacing the network,
       in accordance with best practice, to meet the reasonable requirements of persons
       providing services relating to railways in respect of the facilitation of railway
       service performance.

4.2    Network Rail’s management of its assets has a large bearing on delivering reliable
       and punctual train services. In considering whether Wales & Western has adopted
       and applied asset management policies which comply with the Network
       Management Duty, we have considered:

       (a)   Network Rail’s asset management capability, including its asset data;

       (b)   Indicators of overall asset condition;

       (c)   The delivery of planned asset renewals and maintenance works;

       (d)   The reliability of key asset classes;

       (e)   Access to the network to deliver engineering work;

       (f)   Maintenance reform;

       (g)   Wales & Western’s plans for addressing asset management issues (such as
             reliability of assets); and

       (h)   How the region is mitigating the impacts of climate change and extreme
             weather.

Asset management capability
4.3    Asset management best practice is set out in an international standard for asset
       management, ISO 55000. In our Periodic Review 2018 final determination, we set
       a requirement for Network Rail to meet the requirements of ISO 55000 by the end
       of March 2021. We carried out a targeted assurance review of Wales & Western’s




41
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       progress against this requirement in 2021 and found that the region was in the
       ‘developing stage’ of its asset management capability. We required that the region
       achieve maturity within 12 months.

4.4    We carried out a further review in 2022 and determined that the region was
       substantially complying with ISO 55000. However, we encouraged the region to
       continue to drive forward improvements to its asset management capability
       maturity and practices. This investigation and our ongoing Technical Assurance
       Reviews also highlight opportunities for improvement – and these are discussed in
       further detail below.

Assessment of overall asset condition
4.5    We use a range of measures to understand whether Network Rail is managing its
       assets in a sustainable way to support long-term outcomes such as train
       performance. The Composite Sustainability Index (CSI) provides a high-level,
       aggregated view of asset sustainability (based on asset remaining life) by
       comparing it to the position at the end of CP4. CSI is reported on a yearly basis.
       Wales & Western finished 2022-23 with a CSI of −0.1%. This means that overall
       asset sustainability was 0.1% worse than at the end of CP4 and 0.3 percentage
       points worse than its trajectory (0.2%) for the end of CP6. While there has been a
       reduction in CSI, we consider that it is modest, and review of further asset
       management data is required to understand the impact.

4.6    We have compared the age and condition of Wales & Western’s assets to the rest
       of Network Rail’s network. Taken at portfolio level, the used life, remaining life and
       condition of the region’s assets are broadly comparable with the wider network.
       The exceptions are its bridge assets, which are of poorer condition, and its
       overhead line equipment (OLE) which has significantly more life remaining due to
       the majority of it being more recently installed in 2018 as part of the Great Western
       Electrification Project (GWEP). However, the OLE between Paddington and
       Airport Junction is older and Network Rail plans to renew the headspans during
       CP7. A high-level comparison of asset condition with other Network Rail regions is
       provided in Annex E.

4.7    We have also considered the 2023 Extreme Heat Taskforce Final Engineering
       Report, commissioned by Network Rail to examine how resilience to extremes of
       temperature could be improved. The report identified broader underlying
       weaknesses in the resilience of infrastructure which were exposed by the extreme
       heat during Summer 2022. It provided recommendations to improve the resilience,
       maintenance and competence of the rail network’s critical assets. It emphasised




42
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       the need for better knowledge of asset condition, a more proactive maintenance
       regime focused on preserving asset life, and the need to revise standards to cover
       higher ambient temperatures. There is much alignment between the Oakervee
       report and our investigation report.

Asset data
4.8    Effective asset data management is essential for maintaining the safety and
       reliability of the railway infrastructure and without good quality asset data,
       management teams cannot make fully informed decisions about their asset
       portfolio and the appropriate interventions.

4.9    We have reviewed Wales & Western’s asset data against those of other regions.
       Based on the subset of data for which data quality is reported in Network Rail’s
       Chief Engineer’s report, the region’s data is substantially (more than 95% in every
       category) at the required quality level (A2). Only Network Rail Scotland is in a
       better position. However, this subset of data does not provide the full picture.

4.10   Network Rail recognises that there is room for further improvement in the use,
       quality and accuracy of its asset data beyond the improvements made in CP6. For
       example, it is delivering improvements to its asset register for drainage assets and
       has recently carried out accelerated inspections to understand the condition of its
       electrification assets between Paddington and Airport Junction which has identified
       more than 300 defects for which Network Rail must provide a plan for renewal and
       mitigation (NR8).

4.11   Wales & Western has produced its Asset Data and Information Strategy for CP7.
       The region has set out that:

       “The Asset Data and Information Strategy for Wales & Western is vital for ensuring
       the safety, reliability, and efficiency of the rail network. By addressing key
       components, setting clear objectives, and implementing a phased plan, Wales &
       Western can optimise asset data and information management in the short,
       medium, and long term.”

4.12   We expect Wales & Western to deliver on its Asset Data and Information Strategy,
       and the plans that sit below it, and both will be subject to regular reporting to us.
       We are also discussing with Network Rail the potential to broaden and evolve
       current asset data accuracy measures to enable more effective measurement of
       asset data quality.




43
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Renewals
4.13   In the long-term, under-delivery of required asset renewals will lead to more assets
       in use that are close to, or beyond, their design lives and higher likelihood of
       failures which may impact train performance.

4.14   Wales & Western’s delivery of its planned renewals volumes for CP6 has been
       mixed. Its delivery (using the ‘effective volumes’ measure) compared with its
       original CP6 delivery plan is shown in table 4.1 below.

Table 4.1      Comparison of Wales & Western renewals against CP6 delivery plan

            Asset Area                Delivery       Actual        Variance to
                                       Plan         delivery          plan

            Track (Plain Line)         1,084          968             -11%

            Signalling                  640           990             +55%

            Earthworks                  405           515             +27%

            Switches and Crossings      204           204               0

            Structures                 18,435        15,991           -13%



4.15   Under-delivery in track and structures has been the result of factors which have
       not been unique to Wales & Western. These include loss of effective volumes due
       to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, industrial action, and reprioritisation of
       available funding. The region overdelivered signalling and earthworks renewals.

4.16   The level of track renewal deferral across the region is unlikely to have had a large
       impact on train performance and has been managed through the region’s deferred
       renewal process. The region has demonstrated understanding of its high-risk sites
       and that it has plans in place to manage these track locations, pending renewal.
       However, deferral of track renewal between London and Didcot has been
       markedly higher. Delivery on this part of the network has been nearly 40% lower
       than in the region’s original CP6 delivery plan. This is shown in Figure 4.1.




44
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 4.1    Western track renewals volumes, London to Didcot, CP6




SRSA – South Rail Systems Alliance, Wales & Western’s principal track renewals contractor

4.17    This under-delivery against plan on the busiest part of the region’s network is due
        to factors including access, resource, and plant failures. It indicates a backlog of
        track renewals work at a critical location on the network. We consider Wales &
        Western’s management of track in more detail below and also address the impact
        of access constraints later in this report.

4.18    In any large asset base, there are likely to be some assets that are approaching or
        beyond their design lives, or whose condition has deteriorated to the point of
        needing renewal. These assets are more likely to fail unless carefully managed. In
        response to our investigation, stakeholders have raised specific examples of
        assets which they consider have been allowed to deteriorate beyond the point of
        needing Network Rail to intervene, or left too long before intervention.

4.19    Several stakeholders raised concerns about the condition of freight lines,
        considering that they are treated as lower priority, and citing the example of poor
        condition on the Tytherington line when it reopened to traffic (prior to recent works)
        which resulted in a 5mph speed restriction over an extended period before being
        resolved. Other issues raised included slow resolution of other temporary speed
        restrictions, the condition of overhead lines near Paddington, the management of
        vegetation, the condition of structures impacted by vegetation and the delayed
        resignalling of the Cornish mainline.




45
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

4.20    In Periodic Review 2023, Wales & Western submitted a business plan including
        £2.7bn for renewals. As part of our CP7 determination we identified that parts of
        the region’s plans required more investment directed to core asset renewals to
        address the region’s main vulnerabilities, improve asset sustainability and
        contribute to safety and performance. This was the case for structures, track, and
        earthworks assets.

4.21    Network Rail’s recently announced Project Brunel aims to accelerate vital
        maintenance and renewal works in the Thames Valley. This is the subject of
        recommendation NR2.


Case study: Nuneham – managing the impacts of asset failure




Nuneham Viaduct is a vital structure on a major rail artery for freight and passenger
services. The viaduct was closed at late notice in April 2023, and remained closed for
urgent renewal between April and June 2023, causing huge disruption to passengers and
freight.

For the purposes of this investigation, we have considered the closure of the viaduct as a
case study as it may be indicative of systemic issues of governance, decision making and
lesson learning.

We consider that Network Rail should have recognised that major renewal work was
required on the viaduct in early 2023. Network Rail missed opportunities to intervene




46
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

earlier. It could have acted on key recommendations from a consultant report in 2019. It
also missed opportunities to link intelligence from different asset disciplines (track,
structures, earthworks and drainage) which would have helped diagnose the issue. These
opportunities would have allowed Network Rail to plan its engineering works and so
reduce disruption to users.

Because the severity of the issue was not recognised earlier, the region had to shut the
viaduct at short notice. It gave train operators only days’ notice of the closure. The lack of
notice made the closure more disruptive and gave little opportunity to communicate the
impact to rail users.

We consider that the management of the Nuneham Viaduct incident shows a need to
review governance and decision-making arrangements, including how asset management
and operational decisions are made in a joined-up way, and how risks are escalated
internally and with operators.

In reviewing the incident for this investigation we have identified that, while Network Rail
has instigated reviews of the emergency engineering remedial works and safety decisions,
it has not commissioned a review of wider lessons that could be learnt – such as
improvements to decision-making, governance, stakeholder communications and
operational decisions.


Maintenance delivery
4.22    Each of Network Rail’s five operating regions is responsible for determining its
        approach to the delivery of asset maintenance. Wales & Western has five
        maintenance delivery units with two for the Wales route (Shrewsbury and Cardiff)
        and three for the Western route (East, Central and West). Network Rail’s central
        Technical Authority sets the minimum standards to be delivered and provides
        assurance and expert support to the regions.

4.23    Within CP6 (April 2019 to March 2024), Network Rail sought to embed a new risk-
        based maintenance (RBM) approach based on failure risks, effects, and calculated
        costs of failure, rather than a traditional time-based approach. Whilst RBM has the
        potential to deliver better outcomes and efficiency, its effectiveness depends on
        sound asset data and clear business requirements.

4.24    We have highlighted the need for Network Rail to improve its data relating to
        assets and maintenance delivery over recent control periods. For example, there
        are known gaps in Network Rail’s knowledge of its drainage and electrical assets.
        Where this is the case, RBM is heavily reliant on expert judgement rather than




47
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

        data. It is also vital that new information, for example about asset failure modes
        and mean time between failures, is used to update the RBM approach.

4.25    We have assessed both routes’ delivery of maintenance ‘volume equivalent hours’
        against plan for the first 11 periods of 2023-24. The Wales route has slightly
        overdelivered actual volume equivalent hours against plan except for signalling
        and telecoms assets where it is behind (as shown in Figure 4.2). The Western
        route has underdelivered on its planned volume equivalent hours with most of the
        under-delivery on the eastern end of the route, the most heavily trafficked section
        of the route. The route has delivered its planned Electrification and Plant (E&P)
        distribution and off-track maintenance but underdelivered on planned track,
        signalling & telecoms, and E&P (contact systems) asset maintenance (as shown in
        Figure 4.3).

Figure 4.2    Total maintenance volumes activities – Wales P11 year 5 (source
              Network Rail)




(PWAY – permanent way (track), E&P – CS – electrification & plant – (CS – contact systems, D –
distribution system), S&T – signalling & telecoms)




48
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 4.3    Total maintenance volumes activities – Western P11 year 5 (source
              Network Rail)




(PWAY – permanent way (track), E&P – electrification & plant (CS – contact systems, D –
distribution system), S&T – signalling & telecoms)

4.26    The region has provided evidence of its maintenance assurance plan and
        compliance system. It has also provided a breakdown of maintenance variance
        against plan. For example, it has explained that the replenishment of ballast using
        ballast trains was impacted by the closure of Nuneham Viaduct, but Western route
        has plans to recover the necessary trains before summer 2024. The region needs
        to manage backlogs in maintenance appropriately and continue to keep this under
        close review.

Modernising maintenance
4.27    Along with the rest of Network Rail, Wales & Western is undertaking a
        maintenance reform programme, ‘modernising maintenance’, aimed at improving
        productivity, efficiency and safety. Network Rail has stated that some of the key
        benefits of the programme will be quicker fault fixing through the introduction of
        multi-disciplinary response teams; greater use of technology so that control rooms
        are alerted before key equipment fail; right sizing teams for the fault that needs to
        be fixed; and upskilling its workforce so more of them can fix common faults.

4.28    The premise of modernising maintenance is to have a flexible frontline resource
        via individual rostering and more efficient team sizes. We recognise that change
        programmes by their nature can be disruptive in their early stages before the
        assumed benefits are realised.

4.29    Wales & Western has acknowledged challenges in recruitment and onboarding
        new staff, to replace those that have left. In its response to our investigation, it has




49
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       described how it has sought to mitigate these challenges by retaining the use of
       key staff via short-term contracts up to two years in length.

4.30   We acknowledge that the region is taking steps to mitigate resource shortages but
       it should seek to expedite recruitment of maintenance staff. Resource demands
       have changed with the introduction of new assets and changes in working
       practices. We are seeking further assurance that Wales & Western’s maintenance
       resourcing reflects the challenges that it is currently facing, and we will be looking
       for further details of how the region is planning to meet them over the course of
       CP7. We will follow this up through our regular engagement outside of this
       investigation.

Asset reliability
4.31   Effectiveness of maintenance performance may be inferred from reliability metrics
       such as the number of Service Affecting Failures (SAFs) and the Composite
       Reliability Index (CRI), a measure of asset reliability that is weighted to the
       criticality of an asset. While the effectiveness of maintenance will have a strong
       impact on these metrics, changes in asset performance can also be due to other
       factors, such as changes in weather conditions or traffic patterns, that can
       increase or decrease stress and resulting failure rates.

Service Affecting Failures and Asset Reliability
4.32   In the final year of CP5 there were 3,817 service affecting failures in Wales &
       Western, whereas in 2023-24 there were 4,050 – an increase of 6%. This increase
       contrasts with both Wales route and Western route’s CP6 Strategic Business
       Plans (which we assessed to be within our expected range), in which they
       proposed a −8% and −11% decrease respectively.




50
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 4.4    Total service affecting failures in Wales & Western, CP6
5000
                                                                                    Total SAFs
                                                                                    P13: 4050
4000


3000


2000


1000


     0

             2019-20         2020-21          2021-22          2022-23          2023-24


4.33     This total figure masks some significant changes by asset type, with track service
         affecting failures increasing by 56% over the period (primarily driven by Western)
         and electrification and power service affecting failures increasing by 36% (primarily
         driven by Wales).

Figure 4.5    Track service affecting failures in Wales and Western routes, CP6
700                                                                                  Western
                                                                                    Track SAFs
600                                                                                  P13: 576


500

400

300                                                                                   Wales
                                                                                   Track SAFs
200                                                                                 P13: 201


100

     0

           2019-20          2020-21          2021-22           2022-23          2023-24




51
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 4.6     Electrical & power service affecting failures on Wales and Western
               routes, CP6
160                                                                                 Western
                                                                            Electrical Power SAFs
                                                                                   P13: 142

120



 80



 40
                                                                                      Wales
                                                                              Electrical Power SAFs
                                                                                      P13: 33
     0

             2019-20         2020-21           2021-22          2022-23            2023-24


4.34     There are many factors which affect direct comparison between CP5 SAFs with
         those of CP6, such as:

         ●     Transfer of Core Valley Lines assets to Transport for Wales and transfer of
               Worcester Maintenance Delivery Unit and associated assets to the North
               West & Central region;

         ●     Changes in traffic volumes and therefore asset failure rates, including
               reduced traffic during the COVID-19 pandemic and changes to timetables
               (such as the introduction of Elizabeth Line services);

         ●     Changes in the asset base – for example GWEP completing in 2019,
               delivering new electrification assets; and

         ●     Industrial action over the course of 2023, impacting delivery of both
               maintenance and renewals.

4.35     Even taking these factors into account, the increase in track service affecting
         failures is significant. We specifically address the region’s actions with respect to
         track below.




52
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Asset reliability on critical routes
4.36    The region originally expected asset reliability on critical routes, as measured by
        CRI, to improve during CP6 by 7.2% on the Wales route and 7.5% on the Western
        route. The region’s CRI has now worsened by −14.3% at the end of CP6 (−14.5%
        worse than target) when measured against the CP5 exit position. For CP7, the
        region forecasts a further deterioration of CRI by −6.6% (worst case, before
        accounting for benefits from Project Brunel) which will be a further challenge for
        future train performance.

Figure 4.7    Wales & Western Composite Reliability Index, CP6
 20%

 15%

 10%

  5%

  0%

 -5%

-10%
                                                                              W&W CRI
                                                                              P13: -14%
-15%

           2019-20          2020-21          2021-22          2022-23        2023-24
Source Network Rail Scorecards and CP7 final delivery plan.

4.37    The very significant worsening in CRI performance in years 4 and 5 of CP6 (below
        Wales & Western’s planned levels), is a result of CRI for track, points, and
        electrical power assets. Of these, track CRI is the biggest factor. CRI has been
        particularly affected by failures in heavily-trafficked, critical areas, where more
        repeat faults have occurred.

4.38    We have reviewed Network Rail’s understanding of its asset failures and whether
        its improvement plans have been targeted appropriately based on robust data.
        The region has provided strong evidence of a data-led approach to reviewing
        asset reliability. For example, it has demonstrated use of its Reliability and
        Performance Tool (RAPT) which provides intelligence on areas such as mean time
        between service affecting failures, asset failure hotspots, worst performing assets,




53
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

        root cause analysis and repeat failures. This has been a key input to the process
        for developing improvement plans.

4.39    Wales & Western has demonstrated that it understands which assets are failing
        and which failures cause the most delay to services. For example, it has
        consistently presented the key causes of Network Rail-attributed delay (as
        measured by CRM-P) through updates to its Performance Recovery Plan. This
        has, for example, highlighted track, points, axle counters and overhead lines as
        being key contributors. As a further example, the region’s period 8 update to its
        performance recovery plan identified six key areas that had accounted for 51% of
        delay in the Thames Valley in the previous 12 months. These included track,
        points, overhead lines and axle counters.

4.40    There is a strong correlation between the assets which are causing the most delay
        on the network and the quantum of actions in the region’s Performance Recovery
        Plan. For example, on Western route, where track and points failures are the
        largest asset-related contributors to Network Rail-attributed delay, Western’s
        improvement plan includes 14 track-related actions and 9 points-related actions (of
        the total 95 actions).

4.41    We have considered the reliability and train performance impact of key asset
        classes below.

Track
4.42    As set out above, track SAFs have increased on Western, and track reliability has
        worsened. The steep decline in the track component of CRI suggests that
        reliability has worsened on more critical routes. The primary contributors to track
        reliability are rail defects, temporary speed restrictions for other reasons related to
        condition of track, and rough ride reports.




54
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 4.8    Western route track contribution to Composite Reliability Index (CRI),
              CP6
10%


 5%


 0%


 -5%


-10%
                                                                                  Western Track
                                                                                  P13: -10.20%

-15%

             2019-20         2020-21          2021-22          2022-23          2023-24


4.43     Network Rail has identified that track SAFs have been particularly high against its
         internal target in Western’s Central delivery unit. Our review of the data shows that
         track SAFs have also risen sharply in the East delivery unit area.

Figure 4.9    Track service affecting failures, Western Central Delivery Unit, CP6
300                                                                           Western Central
                                                                               Track SAFs
                                                                                P13: 255
250

200

150

100

 50

     0

          2019-20          2020-21          2021-22          2022-23         2023-24




55
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 4.10 Track service affecting failures, Western East Delivery Unit, CP6
150

                                                                                  Western East
                                                                                  Track SAFs
                                                                                   P13: 139
100




 50




     0

          2019-20          2020-21          2021-22         2022-23          2023-24


4.44     Network Rail has carried out a ‘sprint focus group’ to review track failures in the
         Central delivery unit – a short, targeted review of the issue to assess proactive and
         reactive actions. It identified that the primary causes were geometry-related rough
         rides and maintenance imposed TSRs due to crossing defects. In our detailed
         discussion with the region, it acknowledged that the performance of crossings has
         not been acceptable, referring to 94 cracked crossings in the last year. The region
         has provided evidence of the actions that it is taking on crossings. It has
         proactively replaced 14 crossings before failure, on top of 24 crossings which have
         been repaired or replaced in response to service affecting failures.

4.45     Western route has been conducting a rolling programme of installing void monitors
         – remote condition monitoring of switches and crossings that have the potential to
         provide an early indication of voids beneath the track that allow proactive early
         intervention. The programme has included installation in all three of Western’s
         Delivery Units. It is now planning further installation in the Thames Valley area,
         with 30 monitors covering 13 further sets of switches and crossings. The region
         has provided extensive evidence of the benefits of these monitors and examples
         where they have led to proactive interventions before failures. The region has also
         introduced two new Measured Shovel Packing teams in the Thames Valley, to
         proactively address instances of voiding (with teams in place from Period 8 of
         2023-24).




56
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

4.46   Within track assets, where there has been an increase in faults, these are
       generally in areas where access is difficult, and works have been ‘replanned’
       multiple times. We are however seeing signs that track is adapting to the new
       conditions. Track leads know their assets and are aware of the problems, but they
       have stated that a lack of access is creating an increased backlog of works. We
       have not seen clear evidence that Network Rail has attempted to resolve this, for
       example through seeking increased access windows or additional staff
       recruitment.

4.47   Performance of track in Wales & Western has been a concern for ORR and focus
       of our engagement with the region for several years. We first raised this in October
       2021, seeking to understand the reasons for the increasing track SAFs and
       deteriorating track CRI. The region considers that increased tonnage and axle
       loading is increasing track fatigue failures.

4.48   Track SAFs account for approximately 20% of all SAFs. While overall performance
       has deteriorated, we consider that the region has been broadly effective in
       following processes to manage rail defects. It has complied with its standards,
       completing inspection and rectification activities within required timescales, and
       implementing manual fixes where Infrastructure Monitoring trains fail to address
       the defects. Where necessary it has applied Temporary Variation processes to risk
       assess, mitigate and defer rectification.

4.49   The region does not have definitive evidence of what is driving an increase in
       rough rides reporting. It believes that greater media attention (due to instances of
       broken rails on the main line) may have resulted in more conservative reporting of
       rough rides, and therefore more work to check that the line is safe. The region has
       provided evidence that indicators of track geometry are stable, and below
       thresholds. It has stated that it plans to work more closely with train operators to
       reach agreement on what constitutes a reportable concern. The region should
       consider whether there is good practice to learn from in this regard – for example,
       there was a similar increase in reporting on the West Coast following the Grayrigg
       accident.

4.50   The management of Temporary Speed Restrictions (TSRs) and Emergency
       Speed Restrictions (ESRs) is essential to both securing the safe operation of the
       network and delivering train performance. Speed restrictions are applied as a
       precautionary measure where track or other assets are not up to standard. But
       they can significantly affect train services and drive delays either directly or by
       eroding the resilience of the timetable (for example by impeding recovery).




57
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

4.51   There has been a clear rise in TSRs driven by poor track condition within the
       Central and Western sections of the Western route (Figure 4.11). While TSRs on
       the Wales route significantly increased and peaked in 2021-22, the route has
       successfully reduced their number.

Figure 4.11 Wales & Western TSRs due to condition of track




4.52   The Wales route has provided strong evidence of its management of TSRs. It has
       implemented a TSR board – a specific forum to provide oversight of TSR
       management. This has driven a greater focus on TSR sites leading to good




58
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

        alignment between the Wales Condition of Track Register and sites identified for
        intervention in the remainder of CP6 and across CP7.

4.53    If the underlying asset issues which have necessitated speed restrictions are not
        addressed in a timely way, then the speed restrictions can have an ongoing impact
        on train performance. TSRs (such as those to mitigate the risks of poor track
        condition) have continuously eroded performance and made performance
        recovery more difficult due to the tightly planned network.

4.54    As at December 2023, there were 17 ESRs and TSRs on the region which had no
        planned removal date (see Annex F). We consider this number to be high
        (although we note that some of these sites were completed during Christmas 2023
        works).

4.55    The region has initiated TSR Boards with the aim of applying consistent focus on
        their removal. Wales route has demonstrated particular successes with removal of
        longstanding TSRs (e.g. at Trenos). On Western route, we note that an early
        output of Project Brunel was the removal of two TSRs on the approach to
        Paddington on Line 1 and 2.

4.56    While line speed restrictions appear to be appropriately applied within Wales &
        Western to ensure that the railway is kept safe, we consider that the region should
        continue to increase its focus on removal of long-term speed restrictions. It should
        also consider its approach to conversion to permanent speed restrictions (PSRs)
        where a timely resolution cannot be found or is deemed unaffordable.


Recommendation NR7: Network Rail should deliver on its plans to minimise causes of
delay arising from poor asset reliability. This should include continuing to target the root
causes that lead to temporary speed restrictions on any line of route and to ensure it is
maximising its use of leading indicators of future problems.



Overhead lines
4.57    Wales & Western has a mix of overhead line systems. The newly installed
        overhead line equipment as part of GWEP is reliable with very few issues and very
        few SAFs. However, the fixed aluminium conductor bar installed in the Severn
        Tunnel has had major issues with bimetallic corrosion due to the saline
        atmosphere in the tunnel. The region plans to replace the conductor bar with a
        better solution in CP7.




59
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

4.58    The overhead line equipment between Paddington and Airport Junction was
        commissioned in 1995 for Heathrow Express. When originally installed only eight
        trains per hour used the overhead line equipment, and it is now one of the busiest
        sections of overhead line equipment in the country following the introduction of
        GWR’s electric fleet and the Elizabeth Line. There has been an increase in the
        number of overhead line equipment incidents on this section and incident
        resolution has been poor. Delay minutes have risen as a result.

4.59    Recent high-profile failures of overhead lines between Paddington and Airport
        Junction have led to large amounts of delay and highlighted the need for proactive
        interventions and a firmed-up maintenance, renewal and mitigation plan to support
        improved performance. As previously stated, the region has recently carried out
        accelerated inspections to understand the condition of these electrification assets
        which has identified more than 300 defects. This highlights the need for Network
        Rail to review whether current asset management and maintenance practices are
        sufficient to manage performance risks.

4.60    The region has planned a rolling renewals programme of the headspans element
        for this section of overhead line equipment in CP7 to improve its resilience,
        following on from some replacements already undertaken in CP6. Wales &
        Western has brought a framework developer on board to build a bottom-up plan,
        including for access, to renew these headspans.

4.61    However, these assets are approaching end of life, and the risk of continued high
        impact incidents will remain until the old sections of overhead line equipment are
        brought up to a modern equivalent standard. Pending the completion of renewals,
        the region will need to increase and prioritise maintenance of this stretch of
        overhead line equipment and make sure appropriate mitigations are in place.


Recommendation NR8: In support of its strategic plan to improve asset reliability and
sustainability on the Western route out of Paddington (Project Brunel), Network Rail must
provide a clear, timebound plan for renewing the overhead line headspans from Paddington to
Heathrow Airport Junction and a mitigation plan to ensure reliability until that work is complete.


4.62    For over a decade in the Paddington to Airport Junction area, maintenance and
        fault response of overhead line equipment has been reliant on major projects (e.g.
        Crossrail) support. The region now plans for much more of this work to be
        delivered by its own maintenance teams. This change may present risks to future
        reliability of the asset and fault response and will require careful management.




60
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       Network Rail should carefully manage the competence of its maintenance teams
       to mitigate this risk.

4.63   The region acknowledges that it has further work to do to fully adapt to the
       changed access environment on Western. Access constraints are currently
       causing some faults to remain unresolved for longer than they should and to
       reoccur until suitable access can be arranged to deliver a permanent repair.

4.64   As part of Network Rail’s own investigation into extreme heat it noted insufficient
       access for overhead line equipment inspections and maintenance (across all
       regions). It concluded that there was a need for access to be restored to ensure
       maintenance could be carried out to the accepted minimum level. From our review
       of Wales & Western’s data, we note that overhead line equipment inspection and
       ‘electrical and power’ patrolling currently remain in backlog. A sustained backlog
       would not be acceptable and indicates that access needs to be appropriately
       managed.

Signalling and train detection
4.65   In December 2021, Network Rail delivered a programme to replace an ageing and
       unreliable population of track circuits (train detection) on the route out of
       Paddington with axle counters. The region has provided clear evidence that the
       introduction of these axle counters did initially provide strong performance
       benefits, raising the Mean Time Between Service Affecting Failures from 7.5 years
       (for the previous track circuits) to 17.6 years at the end of the first year of
       operation of the axle counters.

4.66   However, in the last year the region has experienced an increase in service
       affecting failures and a large increase in delay associated with them with, at Period
       9 2023-24, a 46% worsening of Mean Time Between Service Affecting Failures
       and a 334% increase in associated delay. The failures and delay were primarily
       associated with just four of these new axle counters.

4.67   Wales & Western has provided strong evidence that it identified this increase in
       delay and responded to it in a timely way. It initiated a ‘sprint focus group’ – a
       short, targeted review of axle counter failures in its East Delivery Unit area. This
       was reported in its 2023-24 Period 06 Performance Recovery Plan. The region
       has demonstrated that it has carried out analysis to try to identify the root cause of
       these failures. It has also brought in specialist resource (the manufacturer) to
       support its investigation (including to review failure modes and to install monitoring
       equipment to provide early warning of failure risk).




61
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 4.12 Example of Network Rail analysis of axle counter failure root cause




4.68   A large percentage of these axle counter failures have been due to the mechanical
       clamp of their heads working loose – but the region has not yet managed to fully
       identify the root cause. As a short-term mitigation, the region has deployed
       different variations of locking mechanisms to secure the axle count heads. We
       expect that once the failure modes are fully understood and addressed, reliability
       of axle counters in the Thames Valley should improve to levels in line with the
       wider population. Once resolved, the region should share lessons learned with the
       rest of Network Rail.

Access
4.69   Access to the railway is a key requirement for maintenance and renewals activity,
       and for responding to, and fixing faults in a timely way.

4.70   Wales & Western has acknowledged that it has challenges in gaining sufficient
       access to undertake maintenance and renewal activities, especially outside of
       Paddington as it has become progressively busier. It states that the access profile
       has dramatically changed with the increasing intensity of services, while both
       routes have adapted to the red zone working prohibition for access.

4.71   The region states that it collaborates with its operators on at least a four-weekly
       basis to consider the trade-offs between granting access, operator impact and
       performance risk.

4.72   Access is also a constraint in responding to faults. On Western route, the region
       has identified that, where the immediate fault can be ‘worked around’ by the
       signaller, gaining access can be difficult, especially where multiple line blockages




62
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       are required. It states that this has the potential to remove maintenance teams
       from planned maintenance, with no track access available to respond to/fix the
       fault and hence loss of planned work. This suggests a need for the region to
       improve coordination between operations and maintenance teams in planning for
       and responding to asset failures and in recovering services.

4.73   Network Rail has reported constraints on access to carry out engineering works.
       Delay per incident for Network Rail’s service affecting failures has increased
       (Figure 2.6). But it is notable that operator delay per incident has not similarly
       increased. This may be due to a specific issue with gaining access to fix
       infrastructure failures.

4.74   In response to problems with access, the region states that it has instigated a
       workstream to construct and trial a ‘failure response tool’ to improve the
       effectiveness of its maintenance response to infrastructure failures within the
       Paddington to Airport Junction corridor of the Thames Valley. It states that the
       workstream will include an assessment of the effectiveness of network access
       points and consideration of how data could inform suitable actions to mitigate
       extended or unpredictable response times to critical locations within the Thames
       Valley.

4.75   The Customer Impact Review conducted into the Ladbroke Grove de-wirement of
       7 December 2023 identified that access/egress points need to be better defined in
       the Thames Valley to accelerate rescues and transport. The Significant
       Performance Incident Review (SPIR) into the same incident also recommended a
       review of data available to pinpoint nearest access points for future evacuations to
       speed up decision making during incidents.

4.76   The region states that it is committed to exploring effective solutions in the
       medium-term for increasing the productivity of access granted – an issue which it
       states will be explored as part of Project Brunel.

4.77   To fully understand what is driving increased Network Rail-attributed delays per
       incident, the region needs to have robust data – such as on its time-to-site and
       time-to-fix its assets. Network Rail has explained in its response to our
       investigation that it does not yet have robust or reliable data in these areas – and
       we discuss this further later in the report.

4.78   The challenge of accessing busy sections of the network (including adapting to
       safer ways of working) is not unique to Wales & Western – and the region can do
       more to learn from approaches taken elsewhere on the network.




63
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

4.79    Reduced access resulting from changes to train services was foreseeable and
        should have been planned for. The region has not demonstrated a strategic
        approach to planning and optimising the efficiency of its access, and therefore that
        it can establish and then maintain a sustainable approach to delivering the
        required engineering works. It should review and adopt any best practice learning
        from other regions, including in use of tools and technology, and work with
        stakeholders to ensure it is meeting the needs of customers, including freight.


Recommendation NR6: Network Rail must review its ongoing access requirements and
arrangements for delivering inspection, maintenance, renewal and repair works (building on
the approach being developed for Project Brunel) to ensure it can manage its assets in a
sustainable way while meeting the needs of its customers. This should include looking at best
practice being adopted in other routes which are similarly heavily-trafficked and assessing the
scope for better use of tools and technology.



A strategic plan for asset reliability
4.80    Having reviewed the evidence, we agree with Network Rail on the need for it to
        develop a strategic plan for asset reliability: addressing backlogs of maintenance
        and renewal work; accelerating its targeted interventions to improve reliability of
        specific assets; ensuring it reaches a sustainable position on access to the
        network which appropriately balances the needs of freight and passengers; and
        optimising the use of its available access.

4.81    Wales & Western has a renewals and maintenance backlog for certain assets – it
        is not keeping pace with its required planned works. As set out above, the region
        has not demonstrated a strategic approach to planning and optimising the
        efficiency of its access needed to carry out both planned and unplanned work.

4.82    In particular, given the increased busyness of the route out of Paddington (where
        there has been a large increase in traffic and tonnage), the reliability of assets has
        become more important to counter increased delay from each incident (which is
        then propagated across Western). For example, high profile failures of overhead
        lines between Paddington and Airport Junction have led to large amounts of delay
        and highlighted the need for proactive interventions and a firmed-up renewal plan
        to support improved performance.

4.83    Network Rail's Project Brunel, a £140 million, 18 months programme of works,
        aims to address asset reliability problems between Paddington and Airport




64
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       Junction and strategic sites across the Western route. As part of this work, it is in
       the process of agreeing arrangements with operators for increased access
       windows to carry out the works. This must be fully scoped and delivered effectively
       to address backlogs of work, improve asset condition and reliability and therefore
       deliver a longer-term improvement in performance on a critical part of the route.
       Network Rail must now set out a timebound plan and milestones for the works that
       will be delivered.


Recommendation NR2: Network Rail must establish clear timebound milestones for its
plan to sustainably improve asset reliability and operations on the Western route out of
Paddington (Project Brunel) and must track and report delivery against these. It must
incorporate the more holistic approach being proposed for Project Brunel into its Performance
Recovery Plan to deliver sustainable improvements across the region.


4.84   We understand that the increased access as part of Project Brunel is to support its
       delivery (and is therefore shorter-term in nature). Any long-term additional access
       requirements must be fully justified, consider the needs of all users including
       freight and be properly planned.

4.85   The need to ensure enhanced reliability of assets in the Thames Valley area to
       cope with the increased stress was foreseeable. It is now clear that a more
       significant programme of asset renewal and resilience works should have been
       delivered prior to introduction of Elizabeth Line services to support the changed
       railway operational environment and to protect performance. Network Rail should
       have also considered how it would need to adapt maintenance to this changed
       environment.

Mitigating the impacts of climate change
4.86   More frequent and more extreme weather conditions caused by climate change
       are already affecting the rail network and will continue to do so. Delays associated
       with weather have been increasing in Wales & Western.

4.87   For example, during CP6, heavy rainfall in January 2023 has led to flooding (such
       as at Chipping Sodbury) and earthwork failures (such as in the Severn Estuary) –
       and extreme heat in the summer of 2022 caused track, overhead line and
       earthworks failures. The increased frequency of storms, combined with more
       dead, diseased and dying trees, has also led to more delay – for example,
       resulting from the impact of fallen trees during Storm Arwen in 2021-22. During




65
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       2023-24, named storms including Storms Babet, Ciaran and Henk have
       contributed to higher weather-related delay minutes.

4.88   In addition, climate change is having a direct impact on extending the vegetation
       growing seasons and vegetation growth rates. CP7 plans include increased
       maintenance for vegetation management. This includes managing vegetation for
       signal sighting, overhead line clearance, leaf fall and earthworks stability.

4.89   Management of vegetation brings with it particular environmental legal
       requirements. For example, the region has provided evidence that some
       vegetation clearance in Wales has been delayed due to the potentially large
       volume of habitat loss for the legally protected hazel dormouse. Wales & Western
       has been working with Natural Resources Wales to resolve this issue
       [REDACTED].

4.90   We have consistently highlighted the need for Network Rail to adopt a strategic
       approach to increasing the resilience of its network to climate change and extreme
       weather, and to take measures to improve its operational response to weather
       events.

4.91   Wales and Western’s approach to adaptation and resilience of assets to the
       impacts of climate change has improved during CP6, as evidenced through the
       development of improved Weather Resilience and Climate Change Adaptation
       (WRCCA) plans. It has recently updated its plans for CP7.

4.92   Wales route is particularly prone to the impacts of extreme weather. We have
       reviewed the actions that it has taken to mitigate these risks. It has provided
       evidence of key workstreams including:

       ●    a substantial programme of vegetation clearance to remove dead, diseased
            and dying trees on the South Wales Mainline (which has led to the route
            overdelivering against its vegetation clearance plans);

       ●    implementation of a flooding sites camera dashboard;

       ●    deployment of a new app to manage risk from high winds (GUSTO);

       ●    initiation of a Vegetation Programme Board; and

       ●    a review of extreme weather geotech speed restrictions to reduce their
            performance impact.




66
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

4.93   A particular challenge facing the rail network, including the Wales & Western
       region, is management of dead, diseased and dying trees – in particular due to
       ash dieback.

4.94   Wales route has completed its latest 3-yearly tree survey to identify hazardous and
       ash dieback diseased trees. However, Western has not yet completed its tree
       survey. Proactive management of hazardous trees, and demonstration of
       capability to create and sustainably maintain vegetation-compliant sites remain our
       key concerns under vegetation management. We expect the Wales and Western
       routes to be more proactive in their delivery of tree surveys and management of
       vegetation in line with their CP7 delivery plan, which we will monitor them against.

4.95   Having a strong understanding of drainage assets is vital to managing the impacts
       of heavy rainfall and flooding – and to making the right proactive interventions to
       mitigate risks of damage to other assets. All of Network Rail’s regions have
       historically had a poor understanding of their drainage assets and we are
       monitoring their progress towards completing their asset inventories by the end of
       CP6. Wales & Western has delivered this in line with its plans – in contrast to
       certain other regions.

4.96   Overall, we are satisfied that Wales & Western is taking appropriate actions to
       improve resilience to climate change and extreme weather. It should continue to
       deliver on current workstreams, respond to emerging risks and deliver on its
       WRCCA plan for CP7. We will keep this under close review.




67
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



5. Network Rail’s performance
   management and network
   operation
5.1    In this chapter, we review whether Wales & Western applied best current practice
       in train service performance management capability and system operation.

Application of performance management best practice
5.2    Performance Management Capability describes how effective an organisation’s
       processes and structures are at improving operational performance outcomes.
       This includes how it identifies the causes of poor performance and develop
       solutions to resolve them.

5.3    Network Rail led the industry to build new processes called the “Performance
       Improvement Management System” (PIMS) from 2019, partly in response to a
       Provisional Order served on Network Rail by ORR in late 2018. The Provisional
       Order required Network Rail to show how it was planning for performance
       improvement and required improvement in Network Rail's ability to recover from
       incidents. Network Rail was also required to show how it was embedding
       improvements and sharing best practice.

5.4    PIMS identifies that performance is the product of the whole system. Its whole-
       system model of performance includes areas such as fixed assets and fleet,
       service recovery and external delays. The industry has reported good overall
       progress in implementing PIMS, which includes:

       ●    The improvement of Joint Performance Strategies (JPS) between Network
            Rail lead routes and their lead operators;

       ●    Building a whole system approach to performance risk;

       ●    Using visualisation boards and right-time groups; and

       ●    Sharing best practice via the Industry Performance Knowledge Hub.

5.5    In Wales & Western, use of PIMS has continued to be demonstrated in the Joint
       Performance Strategies (JPSs) for April 2023 to March 2024. We reviewed these




68
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       JPSs and considered the strategies relevant to the region to have been of
       generally good quality.

5.6    Delivery of the strategies has recently been subject to peer review, managed
       through the PIMS Governance Board, a sub-group to the industry’s Network
       Performance Board. This review produced strong endorsement for the work that
       has been done on the JPSs.

5.7    The region uses the Risk Management Maturity Model for Performance (RM3P).
       This is a self-assessment audit that examines the relative strength of performance
       improvement across more than thirty topic areas and can be undertaken alone or
       jointly by organisations or by individual departments within them.

5.8    The region and train operating companies have jointly completed several RM3-P
       assessments. This is part of a rolling programme. The assessment for Great
       Western Railway was detailed and set out actions to improve weaker areas. The
       joint assessments for TfW and CrossCountry were also in-depth but had less
       robust actions. Wales & Western also carried out an RM3P assessment with MTR
       Elizabeth Line (and Anglia Route) in September 2023, followed up by quarterly
       summary reviews of lowest performing areas.

5.9    To enable and support PIMS and RM3P, both routes’ have increased the size of
       their performance teams. This includes all posts in the performance teams,
       including TRUST delay attributors.

5.10   We are satisfied overall that, at working levels, Wales & Western region is using
       the PIMS framework and products to improve its approach to performance
       management. Its overall progress is largely consistent with others across the GB
       rail network.

5.11   However, we note that Wales & Western needs to prioritise improving its maturity
       in certain areas.

5.12   When comparing to the industry’s PIMS Governance and Assurance Framework,
       there are distinct weaknesses in governance at a whole system level, such as the
       areas we highlighted in Chapter 3. Our primary concerns are the line of sight and
       accountability between engineering and operations, and agreeing a common,
       multilateral direction for the Western route and for the Wales & Western region
       overall.




69
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.13   Other priorities include the approach to learning from incidents, beneficial use of
       the Industry Performance Knowledge Hub and the assessment of performance
       scheme benefits.

Readiness for Elizabeth Line and other major changes
5.14   The Elizabeth Line has added a new type of service, that of a high-frequency
       metro, that has not previously been part of Western route’s operating environment.
       This is in addition to the airport express, suburban/commuter, long-distance and
       freight traffic on the route. As Network Rail has observed, the number of services
       in the standard off-peak hour increased from 20.5 trains per hour (tph) in 2018
       (12.5 tph on the main lines and 8 tph on the relief lines) to 29.5 tph in May 2023
       (15.5 tph on the main lines and 14 tph on the relief lines).

5.15   Network Rail says that there have been large increases in key volume metrics,
       such as:

       ●    7% more trains / 17% more station stops;

       ●    A 398% increase in passenger journeys between 2018 and 2023;

       ●    262% increase in passenger/km between 2018 and 2023; and

       ●    Increased tonnage on Paddington to Reading by 37% between 2019 and
            2023.

5.16   By their nature, metro services run with high intensity. They are demanding on
       certain assets and can amplify the impact of incidents on performance measures
       by driving an increase in reactionary delay (which is the amount of delay caused
       by services that are running late as a consequence of a performance incident,
       rather than being caused by the incident itself). Readiness to manage a “metro”
       operation requires a different mindset and higher resource levels – and adding this
       to the existing mix of services on Western route was going to be a significant
       challenge.

5.17   All parties recognised there were risks and issues arising from this change, and
       substantial preparatory work was planned to accompany the phased introduction
       of Elizabeth Line services (as discussed below).

The timetable
5.18   In 2016, the end state Elizabeth Line service was specified. It included an off-peak
       frequency of 10 Elizabeth Line tph on the Great Western Main Line with 12tph




70
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       during peak periods. The 10 tph included 2tph to Heathrow Terminal 5, 4tph to
       Terminal 4 and 4tph to Maidenhead/Reading. In addition, there are also four
       freight services per hour on average in each direction on the relief lines.

5.19   Network Rail established the Western Event Steering Group (ESG) in May 2019 to
       focus on Elizabeth Line delivery with participation from industry. The ESG overlaid
       the specification for the end-state Elizabeth Line timetable on the December 2019
       timetable (the major post-GWEP timetable uplift for GWR, which had been subject
       to a previous ESG process prior to operation).

5.20   As part of the timetable development work, the ESG commissioned performance
       modelling from Treno Lab, using the Trenissimo model. The modelling indicated
       that the timetable would not deliver the performance required of the Crossrail
       project: it would not deliver 92% of Elizabeth Line services within 5 minutes at their
       destinations or at Tottenham Court Road.

5.21   The modelling outputs were used to support development of revised specifications
       with funders of passenger services. The 2tph Didcot – Paddington service,
       originally planned to run on the relief lines, was replanned to run on the main lines
       from Maidenhead (peak) or Slough (off-peak) in place of the 2tph Bristol – London
       “super-fast” services via Bristol Parkway (which had never fully operated since the
       Dec 2019 timetable change). This and other changes meant that modelling
       indicated a significant improvement. The expected timetable punctuality from May
       2023, described by the modelling, was 91.7% (as expressed in Time-to-5 at each
       station). This was an improvement on previous modelled outcomes, but still
       represented a 1.6% reduction on the modelled performance of the November 2022
       timetable.

5.22   MTR noted during ESG discussion that it expected to make up the remaining 0.3%
       to reach the 92% threshold for Elizabeth Line services during the timetable
       production process. Later iterations of timetable modelling (specified by MTR but
       using the same model and base assumptions) suggested that the post-production
       timetable would indeed exceed the 92% threshold. Industry parties decided to
       proceed with the implementation of this timetable option.

5.23   However, the final ESG modelling report had also highlighted continued conflicts in
       the Concept Train Plan where Network Rail could not find timetable solutions
       within the planning rules. Almost all of these were between freight and passenger
       services. These would lead to either fewer train services or lower performance as
       an outcome.




71
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.24   Further, the iterative modelling did not contain as many freight paths as there were
       trains operating each week. The December 2020 timetable was in place by then,
       as opposed to the December 2019 timetable that was the base for the modelling.

5.25   The modelling therefore had five fewer freight paths per day included than were
       operating at the time the ESG concluded. “Freight quantum” was noted as a “key
       risk that could change the output of this study” – and more freight was already
       operating daily than the modelled service.

5.26   ORR is not judging whether proceeding with this timetable represented the best
       available balance between performance and starting to realise the benefits of the
       full timetable. However, it was entirely foreseeable that performance outcomes
       would be worse than modelled.

5.27   In any case, even fully effective use of the timetable models would not have
       assessed the full likely performance effects of these changes. The numeric
       outcomes of the models only look at the quality of the timetable and related
       operational plans and are not able to holistically assess the effect changes will
       have on infrastructure reliability. This is an area where industry capability could be
       enhanced as part of the whole industry approach to major changes.


Recommendation NR4: Network Rail must carry out a retrospective review of its
timetable modelling carried out for the introduction of Elizabeth Line services, to ensure it
learns lessons and applies these in planning for future major changes – such as the
introduction of HS2. Network Rail should consider whether its timetable modelling capability
should be augmented or supplemented to take better account of the change’s impact on asset
condition reliability and resilience – and therefore train performance – rather than core
performance of the timetable alone.


5.28   The inherent tension in decision-making following an ESG process is evident: the
       specified “concept train plan” (CTP) – as at May 2021 – was modelled and would
       not achieve target performance outcomes; n.b. the performance modelling only
       considered the reliability of the timetable and not the effect of traffic changes on
       the infrastructure. The CTP had what, at that point, were considered by the ESG
       as remaining unresolvable conflicts with a freight timetable that – due to the
       duration of the exercise – did not include the full quantum of services already
       using the network. The ESG process led to a late change in the timetable
       specifications from two separate funders, DfT and TfL, avoiding a situation where




72
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

        the infrastructure would be deemed “congested” but highlighting a lack of earlier
        joined-up planning.


Recommendation to industry IN1: Industry should review how it can ensure
processes for planning major service upgrades fully consider the cumulative impact of
successive major changes, including on asset condition and reliability, when identifying
supporting work required.




Recommendation to industry IN2: Industry should consider how to provide greater
clarity about the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities of the ESG and related
specification processes to help drive improvements in oversight of, and planning for, major
change.


5.29    Freight’s ability to work within the timetable is critical to overall success of major
        changes. The region worked with the Network Rail’s Freight and National
        Passenger Operators (FNPO) team to introduce Network Rail’s first freight corridor
        (Mendip to Acton) on a trial basis. Network Rail intended that the introduction of
        this freight corridor would provide a greater focus on freight performance issues by
        improving governance and asset management.

5.30    A key element of this work was to recast the freight timetable as part of the
        December 2023 timetable change. The results to date have been positive;
        Freightliner provided positive feedback on this timetable change and the effect of
        regular freight perturbation on passenger services has reduced.




73
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Case study: delivering improvements to the timetable for the Mendip
quarries

Freight services currently operate between the two ‘Mendip Quarries’ and terminals in the
Southeast, moving over seven million tonnes of aggregates every year. Freight service
performance from the Mendip quarries has been challenging, and traffic levels have
increased to serve major construction projects including some of national importance
(such as HS2).

Network Rail worked with freight stakeholders to understand their immediate and
upcoming requirements and then to deliver a significant freight timetable change in
December 2023. It carried out performance modelling and tested the train plan through its
signalling simulator at the Thames Valley Signalling Centre. It worked with route controls,
signallers, adjacent routes and operators to design and then to prepare to manage the
new timetable.

The result has been a positive outcome for the industry with performance in and around
the quarries improved, reduced congestion and improved journey times. Stakeholders
have provided positive feedback about the co-operative way that the new timetable was
delivered.


5.31    However, in keeping with our overall findings on governance, we assess that
        Wales & Western’s overall interaction with FNPO has been operational rather than
        strategic.

5.32    While FNPO’s Senior Route Freight Manager is embedded within the region, they
        tend to be reactive and troubleshoot issues arising at short notice. A good
        example of this is the work undertaken to mitigate operational challenges arising
        from speed restrictions in place after the re-opening of the Tytherington Branch –
        where Network Rail and the quarry operator worked collaboratively to good effect.

5.33    The wider FNPO team has also supported the region in its response to specific
        incidents (e.g. in the failure of the Nuneham Viaduct and the overhead line failure
        of 19 September 2022). However, the freight corridor concept has not been further
        developed.

5.34    Given freight is ordinarily an inter-regional concern, we identify there remains a
        significant opportunity for the central FNPO team to contribute to the strategic
        development of route and regional operations.




74
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Operational and “cultural” readiness
5.35   Project Fusion was established as a joint initiative between Network Rail and train
       operators aimed at ensuring the network was ready for the May 2022 timetable
       change and the opening of the Elizabeth Line. All passenger operators on the
       route and two freight operators were involved. It was intended to “mitigate the key
       risks and issues on the critical Didcot to Paddington section of the Western
       Route”.

5.36   An independent panel with railway expertise oversaw the project documentation.
       They also supported the prioritisation of action plans.

5.37   The plan included 19 critical mitigations. The actions were for both Network Rail
       and train operators, including MTR Elizabeth Line, and included workstreams on
       culture change, leadership, and accountability that reflected the introduction of
       ‘metro-type’ operations on the line.

5.38   In early 2022, Project Fusion was highlighted by Nichols’ review of train
       performance strategies (commissioned by ORR) as “a good example of a
       proactive initiative driven through strong cross industry leadership in preparation
       for a strategic change to the operation of the railway which has significant
       performance risks.”

5.39   However, a review of the final Project Fusion report highlights how the promise of
       the project was not ultimately delivered.

5.40   The project was closed as a single workstream in May 2022, which coincided with
       key individuals directing the collaboration having moved away from their roles.
       This was six months before the “Central Operating Section” of the Elizabeth Line
       was connected to the Western route operationally, and there was much still to do.




75
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Case study: “Project Fusion” outcomes

Of Project Fusion’s 19 critical mitigations, 12 were considered to have been fully delivered
when the project was closed. There were five additional “Fusion Deep Dive” actions that
were considered closed at that time.

Network Rail considered that it had completed 6 of its 8 actions at that time, with the other
two assessed to be “on track”.

There were residual workstreams arising from both completed and outstanding actions,
which were transferred into “business as usual” activity.

We consider that some activities recorded as “complete” were not actually complete. For
example:

●    Project “SP01” was to “[i]identify reliability critical issues that need resolution during
     pre-planned maintenance only engineering access”.

●    This would allow Network Rail to identify physical interventions required, through
     completing inspection of 25 critical sets of points.

●    At the time the activity was recorded as completed, the update noted that “[t]he work
     orders for completed inspections are due to be raised by 12th May”.

●    As such, neither the remedial work that would be required nor even the inspections
     themselves had been completed at the time the action was considered complete.

Other similar examples include:

●    Identifying revised priorities in the Route Asset Manager (RAM) workbank (as
     opposed to completing any works required); and

●    A review of the governance of incident learning, which was closed because the
     exercise had been carried out – even though the reported stated, “the review has
     identified there are ongoing concerns with the closing out of actions. Fusion will pick
     this up as part of the transition into BAU [business as usual].” It is notable that, later
     in this chapter, we highlight significant deficiencies in the ability to learn lessons
     (especially where these are complex and multilateral).

The two remaining “on track” workstreams included implementing improved incident
response staffing arrangements and implementing a detailed freight management policy.




76
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.41   Closing Project Fusion does not necessarily mean the activities identified were not
       properly completed. However, there is notable consistency between actions we
       consider were not evidenced as complete at that time, or that were ongoing, and
       areas that we find remain deficient within this investigation. As such, it does not
       appear that Network Rail fully prepared for the introduction of the Elizabeth Line.

5.42   We also note that some of the actions identified were late in the day and unlikely
       to be beneficially resolved in time to provide a resilient network ready for full
       Elizabeth Line operations. For example, the SP01 project described above was
       designed to identify reliability critical issues that needed engineering access; as of
       May 2022, the status of this workstream meant it was unlikely that works would be
       procured and undertaken before through-running began.

5.43   As such, while Project Fusion was conceptually good, it failed to deliver fully on
       the promise the Nichols report identified.

5.44   Fusion was also aligned to the Elizabeth Line readiness “SPRINT” priorities, which
       were commissioned in 2021 following a joint Network Rail Anglia Route, Network
       Rail Western route, MTR Elizabeth Line and Rail for London Infrastructure (RfLI)
       RM3-P assessment. Some Fusion workstreams were blended with SPRINT.

5.45   The assessment had highlighted gaps in confidence about readiness. Having used
       document reviews, interviews, workshops and observations, the team identified
       some good progress but also found gaps where critical activity was not underway
       or insufficient resource was deployed.

5.46   There were six key workstreams:

       ●    Capable Operations

       ●    Consistent Fleet Management

       ●    Resilient Infrastructure

       ●    Effective Response

       ●    Effective Access Planning

       ●    Effective Performance Management




77
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.47   There were sixty different forums tasked with related activity, and some duplication
       of effort and a lack of accountability became apparent. Therefore, separate
       governance was set up in the form of a strategic group (One Vision Steering) and
       a tactical forum (End-to-End Board).

5.48   While a lot of improvements were delivered, and there is no doubt that many
       people put in substantial effort, ultimately the timeliness and effectiveness of some
       of the SPRINT mitigations has proved to be insufficient.

5.49   In October 2022, a consultant delivered Network Rail an asset-based readiness
       assurance “Criticality Assessment” for the Stage 5b (November 2022 and May
       2023) timetable uplifts. The analysis was based on a “functional system model”
       developed by the Elizabeth Line Performance Based Maintenance project, and
       focused on the 12 miles between Paddington and Airport Junction.

5.50   Specific asset maintenance change proposals were identified within the report.
       However, there was a key, more generic recommendation that identified significant
       challenges that appear to have come to fruition since:

       “Review potential performance impacts of timetable change well in advance of
       proposed changes; this would give greater ability to improve asset condition of
       change maintenance regime and may also influence the proposed timetable
       change.”

5.51   There was insufficient time (and potentially funding) for infrastructure interventions
       identified at this point to be able to be completed by the time Stage 5b came into
       operation. In particular, any work to improve the resilience of “Line 1”/Up Main at
       Ladbroke Grove – identified as the most critical section – had neither track access
       nor a plan to resolve issues.

5.52   Given Fusion, SPRINT, and the consultant report (as well as our engagement with
       the route at the time) we can confidently say that Network Rail understood there
       were significant operational risks and challenges associated with such a significant
       change.

5.53   Increases in asset utilisation and the change in operational character were known
       and there is evidence that operational change and maintenance planning were
       insufficient and undertaken too late.

5.54   This is borne out in the lived experience of users of the network – and the work is
       still a long way from complete, requiring another project (indicatively Project
       Brunel) to drive further improvements needed between London Paddington and




78
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       Airport Junction. Project Brunel itself will need sufficient focus, resources and
       leadership to ensure successful delivery, as an enabler for broader performance
       improvement in this area.

5.55   However, this also highlights a wider interface risk arising from enhancements,
       service specifications and maintenance planning being undertaken in isolation
       from each other.

5.56   In this case, the Great Western Route Modernisation and Crossrail project
       upgraded or installed certain assets and bought new trains. The service
       specifications – to make beneficial use of the major capital investment – were then
       designed by two separate funders, neither of whom funds either freight or open
       access services. This highlights a significant weakness in how service designs are
       currently specified and overseen, on a whole system basis.

5.57   Network Rail, as the maintainer of the network, is a stakeholder in these
       specification processes but the evidence described above suggests that the
       condition of residual (unimproved) assets and work required to improve them
       appears to have been insufficiently thought through. Whether due to “optimism
       bias” or a lack of foresight, we have seen no evidence that Network Rail raised
       earlier concerns with specifiers about the network’s ability to cope with the
       proposed traffic levels.

The system-wide operational plan on Western lacks
resilience. Network Rail is working to improve factors it
understands and can control.
5.58   There are significantly more trains on the Great Western route out of Paddington
       than before its electrification, and more were introduced with the opening of the
       Elizabeth Line. There is therefore less space in the timetable to absorb
       perturbation. The route now supports a cross-London metro service alongside pre-
       existing long distance, commuter and freight services. This means that the route is
       more vulnerable to disruption, and it is more challenging to recover normal service
       following disruption.

5.59   In a standard off-peak hour in 2015, up to twelve trains operated on the relief lines
       (assuming four freight trains) and twelve trains on the main lines. A standard off-
       peak hour now has 14 trains on the relief lines (ten passenger trains and four
       freight trains) and 15.5 trains on the main lines.




79
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.60   The system-wide operational plan on Western is not resilient, including the
       timetable and the resourcing of that plan by operators. The effect of cumulative
       changes was underestimated in the quantified outcomes presented following
       modelling, as discussed earlier in this chapter. When assets (such as track and
       overhead wires) fail, there is little space in the plan to absorb delays to services,
       which are therefore magnified – by the number of trains and interaction between
       different traffic types in the timetable (as described in 5.59 above) and by the
       design of operator resource plans. As described in Chapter 2, primary delay on the
       route is consistently higher than it was prior to service uplifts from 2019 and the
       pandemic, with reactionary delay an increasing factor within the past year.

5.61   Although the timetable remains imperfect in its compliance with train planning
       rules, and integration of the uplifted Elizabeth Line timetable in May 2023 was a
       particular challenge (in part due to the planning required coinciding with industrial
       action), there is evidence that the region understands the issues and is taking
       reasonable steps to improve it. Performance incidents attributed to the timetable
       have reduced in each of the last four years. Network Rail remains focused on
       incrementally improving the resilience of the timetable to basic perturbation, within
       specification constraints. This needs ongoing support from passenger and freight
       operators.

5.62   The region has provided evidence of carrying out systematic reviews of the current
       timetable to understand its contribution to poor performing services, including how
       the timetable is constructed, how it is operated, impacts of infrastructure assets
       and impacts of rolling stock.

5.63   Elements of the plan are predominantly beyond Network Rail’s control, such as the
       overall specification of timetables by funders and the resourcing plans of train
       operators.

5.64   However, we do not believe that Network Rail has a full and detailed
       understanding of all the factors involved and, as such, it is not always able to
       provide constructive and detailed challenge to those parties.

5.65   Taking traincrew reactionary delay as an example, Network Rail appears to have a
       partial understanding of challenges with the principle mainline operator, GWR. It
       has presented evidence of the “symptom” (increased delay, with a case study
       showing a chain of train delays) and proposed that greater “efficiency” in diagrams
       has reduced traincrew resilience. Network Rail described having “active
       conversations” with the operator to reach a collective resolution.




80
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.66   GWR has shared data with ORR showing that it has regularly increased the
       number of mid-route driver reliefs it rosters each day, since 2022. This is explained
       to be primarily for the purpose of retaining route knowledge for drivers at its
       different depots, with fewer train services operating on some parts of its route than
       in the December 2019 timetable (such as between Swindon and the Severn
       Tunnel). As well as timetable changes, other factors causing alterations to the
       driver plan included changes in longer-term fleet strategy following the earlier
       reduction in scope of Great Western Mainline electrification, and due to costs
       savings required following the COVID-19 pandemic. However, it means that
       drivers are more likely to be displaced during disruption, making service recovery
       more complex.

5.67   Despite the “active conversations” described, we have not seen evidence that
       Network Rail has a full and detailed understanding of the issue; nor of proactively
       adjusting its recovery processes and plans to better manage this situation.

5.68   In terms of the elements within its control, Wales & Western has shared its current
       list of planned Train Planning Rule changes being investigated with Capacity
       Planning for timetables between May 2025 and December 2026 (i.e. those not yet
       in full production). This details recurring errors and a number of changes to be
       made for TOC and FOC performance improvement, for infrastructure and for
       rolling stock changes.

5.69   Within this, Wales route is proposing a particular performance improvement focus
       across its May 2025 timetable. This is appropriate, as the route is going through
       major rolling stock and infrastructure changes and currently has the lowest On
       Time performance delivery of all routes.

5.70   Wales route has instigated On Time to 3 groups which identify and drive forward
       local timetable improvement opportunities. It has built dashboards to support these
       groups, for example as shown in Figure 5.1.




81
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 5.1    Example Wales route dashboard on worst performing headcodes




5.71    The On Time to 3 groups on the Wales route appear to be delivering benefit. They
        have resulted in changes to the timetable such as retiming of trains to deliver
        better On Time performance on the Maesteg to Cheltenham and between
        Wrexham and Bidston.

5.72    Taking Wrexham and Bidston, the first four periods of the December 2023
        timetable have seen an improvement in punctuality (measuring every station call,
        within three minutes) of approximately 30 percentage points. The average result
        has improved from c. 50% to more than 80%.

5.73    Wales & Western should consider whether this good practice could helpfully be
        rolled out more widely – particularly for implementation in support of the local
        performance boards that we understand are now in place on the Western route.

5.74    Wales & Western should also accelerate collaborative work with Network Rail’s
        System Operator, such as drawing in subject matter experts on ARS, timetable
        modelling and sectional running times, to analyse further opportunities for
        improvement.


Recommendation NR9: Network Rail should continue to focus on ways to maximise
timetable resilience to basic perturbation within the possibilities of the existing specification,
learning from best practice in other routes.




82
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.75   In its response to our investigation, Network Rail explained that it does not yet
       have robust or reliable data on time-to-site and time-to-fix asset failures.

5.76   One stakeholder has highlighted that operational response times on Western are
       more than double those on Anglia.

5.77   We have described in the analysis section the increased delay from the average
       incident, especially Network Rail-caused incidents. We have also demonstrated
       that increased numbers of trains are not the sole cause.

5.78   The speed and effectiveness of operational response to incidents is a key
       determinant of delay outcomes for passengers and freight. It is largely within
       Network Rail’s direct control and needs to be measured routinely and robustly to
       be effectively managed.

5.79   The absence of reliable data has prevented Wales & Western from making robust
       day-to-day predictions of both response times and incident durations, both of
       which would help operators in planning their own response.

5.80   We note that Network Rail states the region is working to improve the “accuracy
       and usability" of “time to site” and “time to fix” information by adding it to the
       Control Centre Incident Log (CCIL) and the Historical Incident Log Data Analysis
       tool (HILDA), and that some elements are discussed at (for example) Western
       route’s weekly performance visualisation. We recognise some recent acceleration
       in this area, as part of Project Brunel, to improve management of incidents.

5.81   To improve primary delay and overall performance outcomes, Network Rail should
       expand this work to reliably measure, report on and manage quantifiable elements
       of operational response that are within its control, across the Wales & Western
       region.

Performance and operational resourcing
5.82   Network Rail has taken action to improve the sufficiency of its operational and
       performance management resource and it should continue to improve its capability
       in these areas. The region has taken action to address shortages in delay
       attribution staff, operations managers and performance managers. We set out
       some examples below.

5.83   The resourcing of the region’s performance teams has been strengthened.
       Network Rail, along with the industry has increased its Performance Management
       Capability in recent years. It has recognised that greater resource is needed in




83
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       performance improvement work. This involves working within and outside Network
       Rail to deliver performance improvement schemes. To enable this, the region has
       increased headcount in its performance teams. Since 2020, the Wales
       performance team has increased from 15 to 33, and in Western it has increased
       from 42 to 50. About half of these teams are delay attributors.

5.84   Network Rail experienced shortages of delay attributors in the Wales route in
       2021. Delay attributors are responsible for allocating who is responsible for a
       delay. This enables performance improvement activity to be properly targeted. If
       Network Rail cannot allocate a delay to the correct reason, it is classed as
       ‘Uninvestigated Delay’ in the ‘Network Management Other’ category. This normally
       results in train operator delays being counted within Network Rail-caused delay
       statistics (therefore making Network Rail’s own performance look worse). More
       importantly, Network Rail loses granular information about the real causes of
       delay, making targeting of its performance improvement plans more difficult.

5.85   Because of the shortage of delay attributors, Network Management Other became
       the biggest cause of delay in Wales. In response, Network Rail increased its delay
       attributors from 10 to 16, providing more resilience in times of high demand. Delay
       attributed to Network Management Other has since substantially reduced, being
       correctly attributed to asset categories and TOCs as the number of incidents
       attributed by default has reduced. However, the correct historic information cannot
       be recovered.

5.86   In 2021, the Thames Valley Signalling Centre (TVSC) suffered an unusually high
       level of signaller resignations – predominantly for reasons beyond Network Rail’s
       control. This led to delays and cancellations when there was no signaller available
       to enable the safe movement of trains. In addition, Wales & Western had to
       increase signaller levels to prepare for the partial and then full opening of the
       Elizabeth Line in 2022 and 2023 respectively.

5.87   Western route initiated a focused recruitment and training plan to increase the
       number of signallers in TVSC. Despite resignations, the number of fully trained
       and competent signallers has increased from approximately 70 in 2021 to over
       130 in a two-year period, which we recognise as a significant achievement. The
       effective vacancy gap at TVSC has reduced significantly, to approximately 4%, in
       this time.

5.88   However, we note that introducing such a large population of new signallers
       comes with both opportunities and risks. New signallers will be trained in up-to-
       date tools and the latest decision-making techniques – but when the average level




84
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       of signalling experience of each colleague is notably lower, it can take longer to
       make the “best” operational decisions.

5.89   We also note that Wales & Western is increasing its first line operational response
       teams (known as Mobile Operations Managers (MOMs)) in response to its poor
       performance. It is recruiting and training more MOMs for its critical locations, for
       example the key freight depot at Westbury. This is a welcome initiative, but the
       changes in traffic levels should arguably have triggered this activity to be
       completed much sooner.

5.90   Overall, Wales & Western has made relatively good progress in addressing staff
       shortages in the region. It should seek to move from this reactive approach to a
       more proactive one in managing resources to maintain resilience in the long-term.

5.91   As a core requirement to operate a successful railway, the Wales & Western
       region should ensure it has a cohesive operational workforce strategy. It should
       project staff numbers against expected establishment, estimating recruitment and
       training dates by taking into account likely attrition rates using factors such as age
       profiles and the anticipated effects of change programmes.

5.92   To improve outcomes for passengers and freight there should be a further step-
       change in the capability of the resources employed and in the ways of working on
       the route.

5.93   There has not yet been a cohesive business change programme for Western route
       operations that takes account of the cumulative operational changes since 2019,
       which culminated with the introduction of the May 2023 Elizabeth Line enhanced
       through-running timetable. Operational measures are a key element within Project
       Brunel and must be further developed (see recommendation NR2).

5.94   At our industry roundtable, multiple stakeholders questioned resource capability
       and, specifically, the Western route’s ability to work to the pace and attention-to-
       detail required in a railway with such high traffic density (drawing on comparisons
       to other Network Rail routes/regions). Network Rail should take this feedback on
       board and ensure that operational culture on the Western route is appropriately
       developed.




85
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Improving operations capability: 21st Century
Operations and the use of operations decision support
tools and technology
5.95   Network Rail has set up a programme called 21st Century Operations, intended to
       professionalise operations, increase operational competence and enable effective
       day-to-day operations and recovery from incidents. The programme aims to
       respond to these challenges by developing and delivering tools, technology, and
       organisational change. The programme is being run by Network Rail’s System
       Operator, working collaboratively with regions and routes to embed changes.

5.96   Wales & Western is currently taking forwards improvement under the 21st Century
       Operations programme and should review whether it can accelerate its adoption of
       the programme, including drawing on the experience of other Network Rail regions
       which appear to be more advanced (such as Anglia, whose pilot of a 21st Century
       Operations “Ops Management Trial" was highlighted by the Nichols review of joint
       performance strategies in 2022 and whose operational performance is currently
       seen as positive).

5.97   Stakeholders have expressed concerns about operational capability, and in
       particular the need to ensure effective and consistent use of technology and tools
       to support effective decision making. Operators have been critical of Western
       route’s understanding of train crew and rolling stock needs in times of perturbation.
       They have observed, for example, that signallers have an overreliance on
       automatic route setting.

5.98   The region has adopted “traffic management” technology to help it manage trains
       during disruption. Luminate is its chosen tool to assist train running controllers and
       signallers to better manage the network during perturbed operation. Depending on
       which modules are installed, Luminate can be integrated with TOC systems to
       provide a single source of truth for Network Rail and operator across train running,
       stock and crew diagrams. Its core functionality integrates with key operational
       systems, including “automatic route setting” (“ARS” - an automated decision-
       making tool designed to help signallers deliver the timetable, which is linked to the
       signalling system and chooses the order in which trains should proceed), and the
       system monitors the delivery of the timetable, flagging expected lateness and
       allowing integrated replanning of services when required. It can also aid signallers
       making re-platforming decisions in advance of trains arriving, to ease congestion
       around stations.




86
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.99    Working with GWR, the Western route uses Luminate at its Thames Valley
        Signalling Centre; its deployment includes all of the modules listed above,
        although from our discussions with Network Rail and GWR it is clear that not all
        functionality is currently being used effectively to manage disruption.

5.100   A preview of the expected benefits, carried out for GWR and Network Rail by
        Steer, estimated an “annual revenue” benefit from improved performance of
        between £0.5m and £4.4m per annum (which we understand to be derived from
        “Schedule 8” performance payment savings).

5.101   Network Rail states that it has taken a managed approach to increasing the use of
        Luminate on the Western route, training staff so that they can adopt it once they
        are confident to do so rather than requiring its use. Data supplied by Network Rail
        shows a steady use of Luminate with 8-10% of schedules in Luminate edited daily.
        Weekly usage by role shows there has been an increase in signallers using
        Luminate over the last 12 months. The number of train running controllers using it
        has remained steady.

5.102   With Luminate as an obvious example, we find there is inconsistent use of
        technologies in place that are designed to help manage minor perturbation on the
        railway.

5.103   In large part this is because they have been approached as add-ons rather than
        business changes. For Luminate we understand that basic training was provided,
        with the tool treated as an add-on within existing organisational structures.
        Western route volunteered during our detailed investigative discussions that, for
        effective implementation, it should have introduced Luminate as part of a broader
        business change project. This could have examined the concept of operation,
        testing and refining the way it was being used between different organisation roles.

5.104   The same issues will have prevented the route from best integrating the new
        Incident Controller and Freight Running Controller roles, which have been
        introduced since 2022 and should ultimately provide a significant uplift in
        operational capability.

5.105   It was also unhelpful that, as described previously, there were shortages of
        signallers in the Thames Valley Signalling Centre in 2021 to 2023 as this
        technology was introduced. Even had there been a change programme, this
        shortfall would have meant that signallers were not able to be released from duty
        for longer training and development periods. We recognise that current resourcing
        levels should allow for more training and development opportunities to be realised.




87
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.106   Western described that the operations workstream within Project Brunel will rectify
        the prior absence of a change programme, with advanced training in the use of
        Luminate functionality and cultural workstreams that recognise the need for team
        members to buy in to the system to realise the expected benefits.

5.107   The Wales route has been training its staff to enable the introduction of the
        Luminate tool in 2024. This deployment does not include the TOC elements of the
        system (i.e. the stock and crew diagrams), which for now will limit the potential
        effectiveness of joint working with the lead TOC (TfW Rail). However, Network Rail
        appears to have learned the lesson from Western and has organisational
        development as a part of its deployment plan.

5.108   Network Rail should ensure that future significant operational changes have
        appropriate cultural change programmes to ensure that human factors are
        reflected in their introduction and that their people and tools interface to support
        better operation and performance (as set out in recommendation NR3).


Recommendation NR11: Network Rail should continue to deliver improved operational
and signalling capability, establishing and delivering against a clear timebound plan and
developing a suite of indicators to measure capability. To support development of its
operational capability and realise value from significant investments made, Network Rail
should ensure that future significant operational changes – such as the adoption of new
decision support technologies – have appropriate business change programmes (including
consideration of human factors and revised role definitions) to support their introduction.



Service recovery
5.109   Network Rail leads and coordinates the recovery of services following any
        disruptive incident. Train operators also have a key role to play in getting services
        back up and running quickly and effectively.

5.110   Being able to recover service effectively following perturbation means that the
        effect of incidents on operations are shorter lived. Even if technical response to an
        incident is good, if the system is unable to recover effectively then delays
        associated with each incident will increase, and so will the knock-on ‘reactionary’
        delays to wider services.

5.111   Primary and reactionary delays have increased in the Wales & Western region as
        shown in Figure 5.2.




88
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 5.2   Wales and Western primary and reactionary delay




5.112   We described in Chapter 2 that primary delay for Network Rail-attributed incidents
        has been largely stable since the end of 2021-22, despite increases in service
        levels. However, an average Network Rail-attributed incident on the Wales &
        Western region today results in significantly more delay than was typically the
        case historically and this is particularly marked on the Western route: each
        Network Rail attributable incident on Western route caused on average 109%
        more delay minutes in 2023-24 than in 2018-19.

5.113   Effective service recovery requires:

        ●    A base plan with sufficient resilience to be able to recover from perturbation;

        ●    Sufficient TOC and FOC resources available (rolling stock and traincrew) to
             aid recovery;

        ●    Good communication between the site of a failure/issue and the control
             room, to allow operators to plan the first phases of recovery with a degree of
             certainty;

        ●    Good communication between Network Rail and TOC/FOC controls, with
             proactive and collaborative decision-making;




89
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

        ●    Skilled operators with appropriate decision support tools;

        ●    Ability to measure the outcomes, to allow for continuous learning and
             improvement.

5.114   As we described previously, the current timetable has more trains operating on the
        network than historically and is naturally less resilient. As such it was highly likely
        that service recovery would be more difficult than prior to the December 2019
        timetable change, where journey times were markedly improved to make use of
        electrification benefits and drive increased usage of the network. The increased
        traffic from the introduction of the full Elizabeth Line timetable with interwoven
        freight paths introduced further pressure when operations deviated from “normal”
        running.

5.115   However, our investigation has highlighted that the management of service
        recovery has not been optimised, with opportunities for improvement in all of the
        areas highlighted in paragraph 5.113 above.

5.116   In explaining the impact of operator contributions to train service recovery,
        Network Rail has provided high-level case studies describing the impact of
        traincrew issues, and explanations (though unquantified) of the relationship
        between increased numbers of services on the network and increased reactionary
        delay. It has also provided explanations of its understanding of the impact of fleet
        issues on service recovery.

5.117   From our review, we understand that changes have been made to operator
        resourcing plans which are not optimised to assist service recovery when issues
        arise.

5.118   Trains are significantly more likely to have to wait for a displaced driver than two
        years ago. In addition, GWR highlighted to us that recent reductions in its fleet size
        meant that trains’ lengths vary significantly – which means that departures from
        London Paddington in disruption have to be more carefully matched to passenger
        flows than previously.

5.119   Service management and recovery priorities on the Western route are complex for
        passengers and for freight. Due to the nature of the markets they serve, different
        stakeholders have different priorities at different times of day. Despite plans such
        as Project Fusion and the Elizabeth Line SPRINT, the route has proven to be
        insufficiently prepared to manage the magnitude of operational change that was
        coming.




90
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.120   Written stakeholder feedback and the industry roundtable bore out that, while
        some progress is now being made, the communication on the region can fall short.

5.121   Specifically, operating parties in the region do not have visibility of a common
        incident log, and communication between parties that are not physically co-located
        remains sporadic. There are inconsistent types and uses of tools between parties.
        For example, although traffic management systems are capable of providing an
        holistic overview that assists decision-making, each separate party has its own
        unique system or combination of systems.

5.122   While it is mentioned in Project Brunel and we have had some verbal reassurance
        that key individuals understand the challenge, Network Rail has provided limited
        evidence demonstrating that it can quantify, explain and manage the balance of
        factors within its control that may also be contributing to increases in delay per
        incident and reactionary delay.


Recommendation NR1: Network Rail must improve its understanding of why the impacts
of incidents are increasing (with more delay for each incident) and then review its plans to
ensure they target relevant factors within its control. To improve primary delay and overall
performance outcomes, it should measure, report and manage quantifiable elements of
operational response that are within its control across the Wales & Western region.


5.123   Network Rail does not currently have a clear way to measure – and therefore
        manage – the quality of its service recovery. Response and recovery times are
        particularly important where service frequencies are high.

5.124   At the beginning of 2024, Network Rail’s System Operator launched a project to
        develop service recovery metrics. This builds on previous work done in other parts
        of the network, but that has not been fully adopted.

5.125   Recent years have seen the Western route transition to full mixed-use operation
        (including through introduction of the Elizabeth Line and increased freight traffic).
        Although Wales & Western was aware of the importance of implementing cultural
        and operational change, and took some of the steps required, we find that it
        underestimated the overall programme of change required.

5.126   Service management and recovery priorities on the Western route are complex
        and different stakeholders have different priorities at different times of day. Despite
        plans such as Project Fusion and the Elizabeth Line SPRINT, the route was not
        sufficiently prepared to manage sometimes competing needs.




91
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.127   We have started to see some benefits from recent learning and from interactions
        between Network Rail and its operators. Project Brunel includes specific resources
        focused on delivering culture change in operations. Improving the use of the
        integrated traffic management system, Luminate, is a key workstream.

5.128   In an investigative detailed discussion with Network Rail, it acknowledged the
        complexity involved and the need to continuously learn about how to manage this
        level of service. Progress is being made, and Network Rail shared a case study of
        managing coinciding incidents successfully on 26 February 2024: a landslip at
        Twyford and a tree on the overhead lines at Maidenhead. The signaller used
        Luminate to edit the way 284 services over the following eight hours would be
        routed; as well as improving predictability, this allowed the signaller to focus on
        issues as they arose rather than rerouting each one manually. Consequently, the
        signaller had capacity to manage the incident involving the tree.

5.129   We note this positive example, although this again highlights the importance of
        undertaking an organisational change exercise to ensure that roles and
        responsibilities of incident controllers, train running controllers and signallers are
        fully understood in light of operational and systems changes (as described earlier
        in respect of Luminate).

5.130   On Wales route, reactionary delay around Cardiff is a significant factor and
        recovering from perturbation here is a key challenge. The route has specific plans
        to improve this. Additionally, our industry roundtable highlighted the benefits of
        close working relationships between control and signallers or even integrated
        control rooms with train running, engineering and information in one room (such as
        at Core Valley Lines Control at Taff’s Well, with other examples on different parts
        of the network where this works well).

5.131   We consider that plans put in place by the region over the past twelve months may
        be starting to show benefit to Network Rail’s outcomes, supported by some data
        trends.

Contingency plans
5.132   The Network Code highlights that Network Rail should maintain contingency plans
        which should facilitate expedient management of more substantial operational
        incidents. We note that it has developed and maintained contingency plans,
        including working with operators to update these from time to time. Network Rail
        has provided evidence which demonstrates that it consults with operators on
        contingency plans.




92
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.133   Network Rail states that it has a range of contingency plans that are fit for purpose
        and points to ongoing improvements being made. It has also highlighted through
        case studies (at high level) that traincrew and fleet issues can have an effect on
        speed of recovery.

5.134   On the basis of the evidence we have seen, we are currently less concerned in
        this area with the Wales route, although this is a rapidly-changing operating
        environment and Network Rail should remain alert.

5.135   For Western route, we have been able to confirm that the most recent service
        contingency plans, for the December 2023 timetable period, were developed with
        all relevant passenger operators and signed off by each one on 6 December 2023,
        in advance of the timetable change. Network Rail has detailed to ORR the
        engagement it undertook to develop these, through:

        (a)   three multilateral meetings in October 2023;

        (b)   issuing draft revised plans in mid-November; and

        (c)   an additional meeting with MTR Elizabeth Line in late November.

5.136   For freight contingency, Network Rail’s evidence describes that, in 2022, it
        introduced a Freight Running Controller in Western route control. Their role is to
        proactively manage freight on a train-by-train basis, in line with management
        policies. However, Network Rail has not provided the policies and it is therefore
        not clear that the detailed freight management plans promised by Project Fusion
        have been implemented.

5.137   Network Rail has highlighted that it continues to improve contingency plans and
        recovery. This includes further roll out of tools, technology and revised practices to
        assist in making service regulation decisions and minimising delay (such as
        Luminate traffic management, Integrated Train Service Recovery (ITSR), Train
        Running Controller huddles, RAPPORT system real-time tracking, and Rescue
        and Recovery Plans on coupling capability of different stock).

5.138   It appears that Network Rail is compliant with the Network Code requirements
        (control arrangements) in respect of designing contingency plans.

5.139   However, in respect of the Western route in particular, stakeholders have
        expressed concern with inconsistencies in when and how contingency plans are
        implemented “on the day”. This forms part of a more general concern from
        operators about control and communication during response and recovery phases.




93
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.140   It was apparent at the industry roundtable that, regardless of Network Rail views,
        senior stakeholders of TOCs and FOCs retain different views on how services
        should be prioritised. Some operators desire a rigid implementation of the
        contingency plans while others look, despite agreement of the plans, for more
        nuanced flexibility (for example by time of day/day of week).

5.141   All parties agreed that progress had been made at the end of 2023. In our
        investigative detailed discussion on this area, Network Rail further described some
        of the progress being made and we recognise that (for example) contingency
        plans are now built into Luminate, allowing easier implementation when required.
        There was discussion at the roundtable about how to ensure a common picture
        across different routes and operators that do not share service management,
        logging and communication technology (including between routes, as the
        Elizabeth Line makes is easy for decisions made on Western route to affect Anglia
        and vice versa).

5.142   To improve maturity further, Network Rail should lead the various operators on the
        route to align recovery principles. It will need to assess the best way to do this (for
        example whether modelling plays a role in determining how to achieve the best
        outcomes). However, a senior stakeholder forum for the route appears to be a
        prerequisite to allowing operating staff to implement effective solutions.

Incident learning
5.143   Stakeholders have expressed concern about whether Network Rail truly learns
        from its incident learning reviews. They described concerns including perceived
        lack of transparency in tracking actions, lack of visible accountability and apparent
        failure to learn lessons where mistakes have been repeated.

5.144   We have seen evidence from Network Rail that it conducts Incident Learning
        Reviews (ILRs) and Significant Performance Incident Reviews (SPIRs), in
        collaboration with operators, and that it has processes in place that track the
        implementation of lessons identified.

5.145   The sample that we have reviewed shows these reviews generally being
        conducted to a good standard with clear actions and recommendations. Network
        Rail has provided good examples of certain actions being incorporated into its risk
        management process and others resulting in specific actions (such as the
        replacement of failed hydraulic hoses).




94
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

5.146   However, from our review of the actions identified in the ILR of the overhead line
        failure of 19 September 2022, we consider that lessons were not fully implemented
        and similar issues and actions were therefore identified in the Ladbroke Grove de-
        wirement of 7 December 2023.

5.147   For example, following the 19 September 2022 incident, a recommendation was
        made: “The Western route are to introduce a stranded trains board and to
        introduce policies that support the delivery of management of mass stranded train
        events.” On 4 December 2023 Network Rail reported to us that the action to
        “identify, make improvements and practice the management of mass evacuation
        and unit rescue process” was complete.

5.148   The 7 December 2023 incident again resulted in stranded trains. The
        recommendation following that incident stated “NR [Network Rail] Western and
        Thames Valley operators need to agree a joint Stranded Train Strategy which
        prioritises the urgent rescue of stranded passengers starting with those on electric
        trains”.

5.149   In response to our questioning during this investigation, Network Rail told us that
        its 2022 recommendation was narrowly focused on Network Rail, whereas the
        2023 recommendation focused on whole industry actions, including the
        emergency services. However, we consider that the similarity between the
        recommendations indicates weaknesses in truly learning the lessons from the first
        incident.

5.150   A further example where lessons do not appear to have been fully learnt in a
        timely way was the incident where a location cabinet caught fire at Marshfield in
        May 2023, resulting in disruption to the railway for several days. The incident was
        caused when a plastic cable tie broke, allowing a signalling cable to come into
        contact with the overhead line system. The same root cause (degradation of
        plastic cable ties exposed to sunlight) had led to previous failures at Uffington in
        Western (February 2020) and Ledburn Junction in North West & Central region
        (May 2021). While the Wales signalling Route Asset Manager (RAM) had initiated
        a project to replace relevant plastic cable ties with metal ones, Network Rail
        reported in its review of the Marshfield incident that, “it is clear that not all scope
        was delivered in a manner that addresses the risk”.

5.151   As stated earlier in the report, in Network Rail’s review of the closure of Nuneham
        Viaduct, it instigated reviews of the emergency engineering remedial works and
        safety decisions but did not commission a review of wider lessons that could be




95
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

        learnt – such as improvements to decision-making, governance, stakeholder
        communications and operational decisions.

5.152   Nevertheless, Network Rail has shown that there are instances where it can
        effectively embed learning on a multilateral basis. In response to a fatality at
        Pangbourne in January 2024, it set up a tactical working group on fatality
        management with British Transport Police. This approach has been shared across
        industry [REDACTED]. However, we have not seen the region follow this approach
        to multilateral learning on a consistent, systematic basis.

5.153   Network Rail must improve its governance around learning lessons from incidents
        and ensure that it is consistently applying best practice, including learning from
        other routes and regions. The number of ILRs and associated actions is large –
        and a robust approach is needed to track them through to delivered benefits. The
        Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) is conducting a research project on best
        practice associated with ILRs. Beyond immediate actions required for this region,
        we recommend that Network Rail works with RSSB to deliver improvements. We
        also recommend that Network Rail considers carrying out a ‘meta’ review looking
        across ILR actions and recommendations to identify common and/or systemic
        issues that require prioritisation.

5.154   We also highlight that, despite internal tracking, the number of reviews/actions
        shared on the Industry Performance Knowledge Hub is limited. If these are not
        shared, other regions or parts of the industry are unable to learn from the incidents
        and will repeat errors which could have been avoided. While not unique to Wales
        & Western, this emphasises again the importance of sharing knowledge in line
        with good practice proposed in PIMS.




Recommendation NR10: Network Rail must review how it leads learning from complex
and multilateral delay incidents to make sure that recommendations are fully and effectively
implemented, and knowledge is shared across the industry. The process must include
reviewing common themes across the portfolio of incident reviews.




96
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



6. Wales & Western’s plans to
   recover deteriorating train
   performance
6.1    We have considered the region’s delivery of asset management and train
       operations in the preceding chapters. In this section, we consider how the region
       has responded to deteriorating train performance and its effectiveness in
       recovering train performance.

6.2    We have focused our investigation on the region’s performance recovery plan
       (PRP) which it developed in response to our escalation of concerns with train
       performance in 2022. The region has used the PRP to bring together and
       articulate to us the ongoing and additional work it has undertaken to improve
       performance. We are therefore using the PRP as the primary lens through which
       to view the additional steps that the region has taken to reverse poor performance.

Wales & Western’s review of the key factors that have
contributed to deteriorating train service performance
6.3    The region’s first full version of its PRP (August 2022) relied on its routinely
       collected delay attribution data to identify the factors contributing to a loss in
       CRM--P, our regulated passenger train performance measure. In descending
       order, it identified these factors as ‘other’, fatalities and trespass, Network Rail
       operations – signalling, uninvestigated delay, weather, points failures, and
       temporary speed restrictions (Figure 6.1). It accompanied this analysis with
       narrative details of recent events that impacted train performance for each factor,
       linking them to recovery actions that it had taken or had planned.

6.4    However, it initially provided very limited explanation for its ‘other’ category which
       encompassed the majority of delay and covered a disparate range of issues
       including route control, technology and signalling.




97
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 6.1   Network Rail’s first assessment of factors behind deteriorating train
             performance (CRM-P) (August 2022)




Source: Network Rail

6.5     The region continued to update its analysis of factors impacting train performance
        in subsequent four weekly iterations of its PRP. Its analysis further developed in
        both its detail and maturity. Its analysis in its September 2022 update was
        extended to provide a more detailed breakdown of factors contributing to train
        performance loss, along with a separate breakdown of factors impacting freight
        train performance (freight delivery metric by region (FDM-R), our regulated
        measure for freight). From that update onward, the region also began to report
        delay minutes for each major category, set against forecast. Subsequent updates
        set out further analytical detail including a breakdown of factors contributing to
        train performance for each route.

6.6     While Network Rail became progressively more detailed in its analysis, it
        continued to focus its explanation of factors contributing to poor train performance
        on immediate events, fragmented by delay categories. Its review of factors
        impacting train performance has been thorough but was not consistently taken
        further into root cause analysis which could have better informed the region’s
        development of its performance recovery.




98
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

6.7    We would also note that when the PRP was originally initiated the Wales route
       was short of delay resource attributors. As a result, the Wales route did not have
       an accurate understanding of its causes of delay, and the route’s Network Rail-
       attributed delay was overinflated. The region took action to hire and train new
       delay attributors, but it was only in March 2023 that it was able to eliminate all
       uninvestigated delay. This improved both its reported train performance and its
       understanding of poor train performance.

Development of a train performance recovery plan
6.8    In this section, we review whether Wales & Western has developed a suitably
       evidenced and resourced improvement plan, and whether that plan reflects and
       seeks to address the key drivers of deteriorating train performance.

6.9    In response to our escalation of concerns with train performance, the region
       provided us with the PRP in August 2022. The region has used the PRP to bring
       together and articulate to us the on-going and additional work it has undertaken to
       improve performance.

6.10   The PRP has grown iteratively since it was first developed, and by December
       2023 a further 72 recovery actions had been added to the original 68 actions. The
       region has met with us to provide us with updates to this plan every four weeks.

6.11   The PRP is structured to provide a summary of the latest period’s performance
       and the progress that the region has made in completing key actions. It sets out
       what improvement actions have been recently completed and which ones are due
       in the next period. It provides individual examples of the benefits of performance
       improvement and sustaining activities for each route, for example work on
       removing temporary speed restrictions or vegetation management. It tracks how
       the region is performing against regulated train performance metrics at a regional
       and route level with forecasts of future performance against a range of scenarios.
       The region also set out the key risks to performance within its PRP.

6.12   The PRP is further split into separate sections for Wales performance, Western
       performance and freight performance. This has provided transparency about the
       different challenges each route has faced and allowed us to maintain sight of the
       distinct actions that are being taken to seek to improve freight performance. The
       PRP is accompanied by a detailed list of recovery actions and their completion
       status of which Figure 6.2 provides an example.




99
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

6.13   The Wales route focused its performance recovery on what it terms ‘the 7Rs’.
       These are reliability, restrictions, repetition, resilience, resource, risk and research
       (switching to ‘freight’ once delay attribution was remedied). The Wales route has
       demonstrated to us that the 7Rs are aligned with the route’s main performance
       priorities. Key features of the route’s plan included:

       ●    Eliminating uninvestigated delay to provide an accurate understanding and
            position on delay;

       ●    Targeting its worst performing assets and most important assets for train
            performance;

       ●    Removing long-standing temporary speed restrictions; and

       ●    Accelerating vegetation management.

6.14   The Western section was based on three pillars of service improvement that it
       identified: asset management, incident management and incident response. It
       sequenced its approach in its most recent updates into three phases, reflected in
       the subsequent phasing adopted by Project Brunel: stabilise (0-6 months); short to
       medium term fix (6-18 months); and sustain (18 months +). Key features of the
       route’s plan included:

       ●    Resourcing and training operational staff;

       ●    Focussing on the key areas responsible for most delay in the Thames Valley
            (track, points, overhead wires, axle counters, trespass & fatality and network
            management); and

       ●    Removing temporary speed restrictions.

6.15   The freight section contains detailed analysis of freight performance. It sets out the
       actions that are being taken to improve freight performance. In its most recent
       update the region has set out its action plan to remove temporary speed
       restrictions on its main freight branches, namely Tytherington, Merehead and
       Whatley.

6.16   Figure 6.2 provides a snapshot of actions for the Western route.




100
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 6.2   Example of Western route’s Performance Recovery Plan action log




6.17   The PRP sets out actions to address all the main delay categories. For the
       Western route the plan relates closely to the biggest causes of asset delay. Of its
       94 actions, 39 of them relate to axle counters and train detection systems, track
       faults, overhead line faults and points failures. A further nine actions target
       temporary speed restrictions. Most of the rest of the actions are focused on areas
       such as Network Rail operations, trespass & fatality and train service delivery.

6.18   The Wales plan displays a similar adherence to the biggest causes of delay. Of
       the route’s 46 actions 11 of them relate to weather, eight were directed at
       temporary speed restrictions, eight focused on uninvestigated delay, five on
       signalling and five on train service delivery. Other actions are focused on points
       failures, trespass & fatality, Network Rail operations, points failures, signalling and
       overhead line equipment.

6.19   We have assessed that the actions that the region has identified in its PRP were
       appropriate to improve train performance, but were primarily tactical and short-
       term in their nature, intended to have an immediate impact. The region could
       credibly complete those actions, as demonstrated by the good progress it made in
       delivering them and it had the necessary means and resources to carry them
       through, as evidenced by it increasing the size of its routes’ performance teams.




101
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Delivery of the performance recovery plan
6.20      While the individual performance recovery actions contained in the PRP have
          target end dates, the region has not set an end point for the PRP. Wales &
          Western has intended the PRP to act as the lens through which we can view its
          collective actions to address train performance and for the plan to continue until
          train performance has sufficiently improved and stabilised such that all
          performance management is carried out on a business-as-usual basis. As train
          performance has not recovered, the PRP has continued to operate.

6.21      The region has taken a continuous improvement approach and as the originally
          identified activities have been completed, further recovery actions have been
          identified and added to the PRP. Nevertheless, a substantial number of
          performance improvement activities are now complete. As of December 2023, 116
          out of 140 actions had been completed.

6.22      Given the range and number of different actions that the region has set itself to
          complete, it would be unusual if the region had met the original target dates for
          each individual action. Overall, the region has shown good discipline in delivering
          its actions. Levels of delivery slippage have been low, have been accounted for
          and transparently communicated to us. The status of PRP actions as most
          recently updated at the outset of the investigation is set out in the table below:

Table 6.1      Performance recovery plan – status of recovery actions as of December
               2023

                                              Western route     Wales route     Region

  Action complete, part complete or           76                40              116
  closed

  On target                                   13                0               13

  Missed or re-dated                          5                 6               11

  Total                                       94                46              140
Source: Network Rail action log December 2023

6.23      Prior to the investigation, the region provided us with written updates every period
          on actions that it has completed, and the region’s two route directors met with us
          each period to explain in greater detail how those actions had been completed.
          We are generally satisfied that the actions that the region has declared as




102
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       completed have been successfully delivered, although by their nature, some
       actions are ongoing rather than one-off.

Review of the performance recovery plan, its delivery
and the realisation of benefits
6.24   Wales & Western has continuously tracked its actual performance against
       improvement forecasts to enable it to understand the benefits that the plan was
       delivering. Its forecast centred on its two regulated performance measures CRM-P
       and FDM-R. However, the region consistently overestimated the performance
       improvement it would achieve.

6.25   In its October 2022 PRP update, the region targeted an immediate improvement in
       CRM-P (a moving annual average measure) and forecast that it would return
       CRM-P to the regulatory floor by early 2023-24 (Figure 6.3). As subsequent
       performance and revisions to the forecast would show, this reflected both an over-
       optimism of the impact that its performance recovery actions would have and an
       under-estimate of the impact that contributory factors to poor performance would
       have, including new services and increased network busyness.

Figure 6.3   Wales & Western Performance Recovery Plan – 3rd update, October
             2022




6.26   When the region updated its forecast three months later in December 2022, it
       extended its forecast for when it would return CRM-P to the regulatory floor by four
       months (Figure 6.4). It also introduced ‘low’ and ‘high’ forecasts which provided a
       range of outcomes and better reflected uncertainty in the forecasting process.
       However, these forecasts remained overoptimistic and subsequent poor
       performance outstripped the region’s worst forecast (‘low forecast’).




103
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 6.4   Wales & Western Performance Recovery Plan – 5th update, December
             2022




6.27   The region carried out a fundamental revision of its forecasting in February 2023
       and sought assurance from Network Rail’s national performance analysis team
       who identified an inherent optimism bias which had led to risks being insufficiently
       overlayed in the forecasts. The February 2023 update set out a range of possible
       performance outcomes, with the regulatory floor for CRM-P only forecast to be
       recovered in its most positive scenario (Figure 6.5).

6.28   In addition to a significantly more negative worst-case scenario which set out the
       possibility of substantial and continued further deterioration, the region set out a
       range of ‘midpoint forecasts’. The worst of its three midpoint forecasts set out a
       continued deterioration of CRM-P throughout the control period and actual
       performance tracked just below it in December 2023, at the outset of our
       investigation (Figure 6.6). CRM-P ultimately ended 2023-24 at 2.79, above (worse
       than) its most negative midpoint forecast of 2.67.




104
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 6.5   Wales & Western Performance Recovery Plan – 8th update, February
             2023




Figure 6.6   Wales & Western Performance Recovery Plan – 18th update, December
             2023




6.29   In addition to forecasting future performance and tracking the overall impact of the
       plan against performance, the region has also sought to look back and evaluate
       the benefits of individual interventions.




105
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

Figure 6.7   Examples of completed actions on the Western route with associated
             benefits




6.30   Although Network Rail has provided evidence that individual actions have
       delivered benefits, it has not been able to disaggregate the effect of its plan on
       overall performance. Delays have increased and the PRP has not yet improved
       overall performance at a regional level.

Review of the plan where it has not led to improvement
6.31   The region has been pro-active since the inception of the PRP to identify further
       interventions that could be made to improve train performance, recognising that
       more needed to be done to improve performance.

6.32   As detailed above, in February 2023, the region carried out a major review of the
       benefits it expected the plan to deliver. While this re-forecast reflected an
       improving understanding of the underlying causes of increased delay, the further
       recovery actions that it subsequently included in the PRP were not fully
       commensurate to the starker performance improvement challenge that it had
       identified. At that point it had completed 65 out of 106 actions. The region
       identified a further 34 actions in the ten months that followed. Further insight that
       the region was gaining from understanding the causes of delay as a result of
       observing rather than predicting train performance did not change a fundamentally
       tactical approach to iterating its performance plan. The region responded to the




106
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       increasing pressures caused by deteriorating train performance on the Western
       route through reactive interventions.

6.33   With 83% of actions completed as of December 2023, the region was still
       projecting worsening passenger train performance as measured by CRM-P.
       Following the initiation of our investigation, the region announced Project Brunel, a
       new project to address longer-term asset sustainability and reliability on the
       Western route out of Paddington. Through this 18 months, £140 million project,
       Network Rail is seeking to stabilise performance by June 2024, improve
       performance by December 2024 and stabilise performance through to June 2025.
       The plan also aims to provide HS2 readiness for assets and operations. The
       region has secured additional staff and expertise for the project, operating under a
       Programme Director.

6.34   Project Brunel has a four-fold approach to delivering improved performance:

       (a)   Accelerating targeted interventions to quickly raise the base performance of
             the Western route’s infrastructure assets;

       (b)   Developing its performance improvement processes and developing its
             people;

       (c)   Implementing a process improvement approach to drive each incident and
             asset failure to root cause so that lessons are learnt and corrective actions
             implemented; and

       (d)   Developing asset management plans which are directly linked to asset
             degradation, with access provided to deliver those plans.

6.35   While Network Rail is delivering immediate infrastructure interventions, its plan is
       still maturing and Network Rail intends to use knowledge gained from
       implementing short-term improvements to improve and refine its programme of
       works.

6.36   Alongside asset interventions, Project Brunel also has a number of operationally
       focused actions, including a control operations leadership academy, a training
       programme on Luminate, an OLE training facility and review of the asset recovery
       management process. Network Rail has not yet specified the impact or quantified
       the benefits that it expects from these future actions. Network Rail must make sure
       that appropriate operational measures continue to be developed and implemented.




107
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

6.37   The region should make use of Project Brunel to adopt and communicate a more
       strategic approach accompanied by effective project discipline to deliver and track
       improvements against clear and timebound milestones for both sustainably
       improved asset reliability and operations on the Western route (see
       recommendation NR2). It should make sure that that its PRP incorporates the
       more holistic approach of Project Brunel, to deliver sustainable improvements
       across the region.

6.38   Network Rail has evidenced that it has analysed and has developed its
       understanding of the factors driving increased delay. It has reflected this in the
       additional improvement actions it has identified to address delay. However, there
       is scope for Wales & Western to deepen its analysis of the root causes of delay
       and as noted in our analysis chapter, it should enhance its understanding of why
       the impacts of incidents are increasing so that it can better target factors within its
       control. This is the subject of recommendation NR1. The work that it is undertaking
       to improve its data on time-to-site and time-to-fix assets will help to improve its
       understanding. We also note that one of the key approaches of Project Brunel is to
       investigate each incident and asset failure through to root cause.




108
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



7. Network Rail’s stakeholder
   engagement
7.1    In this chapter, we review whether Wales & Western has engaged with relevant
       stakeholders in the development of the improvement plan to ensure it meets their
       reasonable requirements.

Wales & Western’s approach to stakeholder engagement
7.2    Wales & Western has engaged extensively with stakeholders on train performance
       and we have established that its PRP seeks to address most of the issues that
       stakeholders have identified. Nevertheless, some themes of criticism that emerged
       from stakeholder feedback to us included a lack of understanding of the strategy
       behind performance recovery, lack of confidence that the region understood the
       root causes of poor performance, lack of clarity as to when improved train
       performance will be delivered on the Western route and as a result, lack of
       confidence that the improvement plan will meet their expectations.

7.3    We produce an annual assessment of the quality of Network Rail’s stakeholder
       engagement, assessing each of its business units, including Wales & Western. We
       assess Network Rail against four principles of stakeholder engagement: inclusive,
       transparent, well-governed and effective. In our most recent assessment, covering
       April 2022 to March 2023, we scored Wales & Western consistently well across
       the four principles of stakeholder engagement. We noted that the region had
       sought to improve responsiveness to stakeholders, however we recommended
       that the region should consider how to evidence and articulate the impact of
       stakeholder engagement activities more effectively, including how stakeholder
       feedback influenced plans and how this impact was communicated to
       stakeholders.

7.4    Wales & Western, in line with practice in other Network Rail regions, engages with
       train operating companies to agree annual customer scorecards against which it
       measures its performance against a range of metrics. These metrics include train
       service performance and safety, but can also include passenger satisfaction,
       project delivery, asset management and financial targets.

7.5    In 2022-23, Wales & Western achieved 88% for Great Western Railway, 52% for
       Transport for Wales and 0% for Heathrow Express. In that year, the region also
       agreed specific metrics with two other operators, achieving 55% for MTR public




109
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       performance measure (PPM – a combined figure for punctuality and reliability) and
       200% for CrossCountry On Time to 3 passing Awre from Cardiff.

7.6    In 2023-24 Wales & Western achieved 69% for Great Western Railway, 47% for
       Transport for Wales, 30% for Heathrow Express, 78% for MTR and 71% for Wales
       route delay minutes impacting CrossCountry.

7.7    We have established that the region has engaged with train and freight operating
       companies in the region on an iterative basis to inform the development and
       updating of its PRP. It has fed back to train operators the actions that it is taking as
       a result of their requirements. Network Rail has kept Transport Focus informed of
       what it is doing to improve performance. It has also held twice yearly drop in-
       events in Parliament and the Senedd together with train operators to understand
       the issues that parliamentarians see and inform them of the action that they are
       taking.

7.8    As part of Network Rail’s Performance Improvement Management System (PIMS),
       the region has benefited from pre-existing approaches through which to jointly
       work with train operating companies to identify performance priorities. This has
       been done at a strategic level through the agreement of Joint Performance
       Strategies (JPS) and the conduct of joint Risk Management Maturity Model for
       Performance (RM3P) audits.

7.9    The region has agreed JPSs with Great Western Railway, MTR Elizabeth Line and
       Transport for Wales on an annual basis in order to identify priorities and
       performance improvement actions for the following year. The region is also
       included in CrossCountry’s performance strategy. It has carried out joint RM3P
       audits with all train operating companies with which it has a JPS to identify areas
       where performance delivery needs to be improved.

7.10   The region has also used and developed an extensive range of regular and
       bespoke forums with train operators to track progress in addressing performance
       issues and to develop responses to new issues. These forums have included a
       periodic regional freight performance meeting, a freight board, periodic GWR
       Alliance Board, a periodic joint performance executive with GWR, a periodic MTR
       performance board, a regional CrossCountry meeting, the Devon and Cornwall
       Local Delivery Board, 2021 SPRINT on Elizabeth Line readiness, the GWR led
       Fusion project in 2021 and 2022, and joint leadership conferences with GWR, and
       Wales and Borders Leadership Group. Both routes have also benefited from
       externally chaired route supervisory boards bringing together train operators and
       other stakeholders.




110
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

7.11   This engagement has provided Wales & Western with an effective basis from
       which to understand train operators’ requirements, which we have seen reflected
       in the region’s Performance Recovery Plan in 2022. Following the development of
       that plan it has introduced other performance focused touchpoints such as route-
       level weekly performance visualisation meetings with participation from train
       operators. These visualisation meetings were introduced to enable a joint review
       of performance and to provide operators with the opportunity to escalate
       performance issues.

7.12   The region’s performance recovery plan reflects the majority of individual
       stakeholders’ priorities and requirements. While the region has not labelled
       individual actions as resulting from stakeholder requirements, there is a clear line
       of sight between priorities that stakeholders have informed us of and the content of
       the region’s Performance Recovery Plan. Axle counters, overhead line equipment,
       points, track and vegetation management have all been highlighted by
       stakeholders as areas for focus for the region and feature prominently in the
       improvement plan.

Stakeholder feedback
7.13   As part of our review of Wales & Western’s engagement with stakeholders we
       have sought the views of a range of stakeholders including train and freight
       operating companies active in the region, Welsh Government, Amey Core Valley
       Lines, Transport for London, Transport Focus and London TravelWatch. According
       to their various remits, we have sought their views on:

       ●    the impact on passengers of poor train performance;

       ●    stakeholders’ experience of engagement with the region in relation to
            improving train performance;

       ●    how stakeholders’ requirements are reflected in the region’s improvement
            plans;

       ●    how Wales & Western works with stakeholders when incidents occur;

       ●    how Wales & Western learns from incidents;

       ●    Wales & Western’s operational management; and

       ●    factors outside of Wales & Western’s direct control.




111
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

7.14   We received feedback from Great Western Railway, Heathrow Express, MTR
       Elizabeth Line, Transport for Wales Rail, Avanti West Coast, DB Cargo, GB
       Railfreight, Freightliner, Transport for London, Welsh Government, Amey Core
       Valley Lines, Transport Focus and London TravelWatch. The key themes raised
       are summarised below:

Quality of engagement
7.15   Stakeholders generally had a positive view of the region’s engagement with them
       on train performance, with established touchpoints at all levels. A number of
       stakeholders noted that engagement has markedly improved, particularly over the
       last two years. However, there were areas of exception.

7.16   Freight operating companies stated that engagement displayed a good focus on
       local level issues. One operator highlighted that they had more touchpoints
       relating to performance with Wales & Western than any other Network Rail region.
       However, freight operating companies commented that there was a need for
       engagement to be more strategic, for it to cover forward freight requirements, join
       up plans between the local and national level and make greater inclusion of
       intermodal services.

7.17   Train operating companies and other stakeholders on the Wales route highlighted
       the strength of engagement with Network Rail, with a tripartite performance
       strategy in place between Network Rail, Transport for Wales and Amey, the
       infrastructure manager for the Core Valley Lines. The local railway partnership
       was flagged as a positive step.

7.18   Train operating companies and other stakeholders on the Western route
       highlighted that there are good engagement opportunities at all levels and that
       collaboration on performance has improved over the last 24 months with greater
       transparency and an effective weekly visualisation meeting. Nevertheless, two
       stakeholders stated that there was scope for closer collaboration at a senior level.
       Other comments included a desire for greater engagement on the region’s
       investment decisions, including maintenance and renewal; better communication
       on the delivery of outcomes; and improving on areas of low score identified by
       RM3P.

Improvement plan
7.19   A number of stakeholders highlighted that the region was demonstrating an overly
       tactical focus to addressing performance issues. While these immediate initiatives
       were understood by stakeholders, they did not understand the region’s




112
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       performance improvement strategy. Concern was expressed that the region’s
       actions were overly reactive and not based on an analysis of root causes.

7.20   Connected to this, concerns were raised that the region did not properly
       understand its assets at system level, nor was there sufficient understanding of
       strategic assets in planning. A danger was highlighted that short-term needs had
       been prioritised and longer-term thinking was lacking. Overall, stakeholders lacked
       confidence that improvement plans would deliver the necessary levels of
       improvement, with a particular concern that in the Thames Valley poor
       performance might become normalised.

7.21   Freight operating companies fed back that freight was not sufficiently factored into
       performance improvement, though one freight operating company noted that
       freight performance was improving on the Wales route. Freight operating
       companies were concerned that delivery plans were overly weighted to the
       Thames Valley at the expense of other areas of the region. The need to improve
       reliability of the Tytherington freight branch was collectively highlighted. However,
       stakeholders expressed opposing views on the correct prioritisation of the
       competing demands of freight, metro services or long-distance passenger services
       for performance improvement, with these views also applying to prioritisation
       during incident response. Some stakeholders stated that they were imposed upon
       when it came to performance improvement and incident response decisions.

Operational management
7.22   A range of concerns were raised about the loss of operational knowledge and
       expertise in the region. A concern was expressed that the consolidation of the
       Thames Valley Signalling Centre had led to the loss of signalling expertise.
       Operationally, stakeholders expressed a view that there was an over-reliance on a
       small number of capable people and Network Rail needs greater depth of
       operational expertise. Similar feedback was provided about the inconsistent use of
       performance management processes and tools.

7.23   Stakeholders drew attention to the impact that poor quality delay attribution and
       delay attribution under-resourcing has had, with a particular concern caused by a
       gap in historical delay attribution on the Wales route, which has impacted the
       ability to accurately direct performance improvement activity and plan future
       performance levels.




113
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Passenger impact
7.24    Transport Focus set out that performance is the second highest priority for
        passengers in the region and plays a significant role in passengers’ perception of
        value for money and likelihood of travelling. Its Rail User Survey shows a decline
        in overall satisfaction, and punctuality and reliability from 6 October 2021 to 4
        February 2024 for two of the major train operating companies in the region, Great
        Western Railway and Transport for Wales Rail (see Figure 7.1). London
        TravelWatch highlighted that with over 700,000 journeys made on the Elizabeth
        Line each day, poor performance on the Elizabeth Line has a big impact on many
        passengers.

Figure 7.1    Passenger satisfaction and punctuality/reliability, 6 Oct 2021 to 4
              February 2024
Great Western Railway




Time period dates (left to right): 6 Oct 2021 to 9 Jan 2022, 12 Jan to 3 Apr 2022, 8 Apr to 26 June
2022, 1 July to 18 Sep 2022, 23 Sep to 11 Dec 2022, 16 Dec 2022 to 19 Mar 2023, 26 Mar to 20
Aug 2023, 1 Sep 2023 to 4 Feb 2024.

Sample size overall satisfaction: 327, 286, 187, 243, 259, 214, 265, 278
Sample size punctuality, reliability: 325, 286, 187, 243, 258, 214, 265, 278




114
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Transport for Wales




Time period dates (left to right): 6 Oct 2021 to 9 Jan 2022, 12 Jan to 3 Apr 2022, 8 Apr to 26 June
2022, 1 July to 18 Sep 2022, 23 Sep to 11 Dec 2022, 16 Dec 2022 to 19 Mar 2023, 26 Mar to 20
Aug 2023, 1 Sep 2023 to 4 Feb 2024.

Sample size overall satisfaction: 103, 113, 77, 69, 83, 89, 81, 95
Sample size punctuality, reliability: 102, 113, 77, 69, 82, 89, 81, 95

(Some base sizes are below 100, which would be the ideal minimum for analysis)

Transport Focus Rail User Survey, February 2024

Incident management and learning
7.25     Stakeholders stated that incident management on the Wales route is well
         coordinated with a good joint command structure in place for major incidents,
         however, with room for improvement for less significant incidents. Stakeholder
         feedback for the Western route was less positive. Train and freight operating
         companies variously highlighted an over-reliance on a small number of people,
         inconsistencies in the implementation of contingency plans, lack of strategic
         leadership during incident response and management of large incidents, lack of
         consultation, issues arising from not all train operating companies being co-located
         with Network Rail, timeliness of coordination, and understanding crew and traction
         diagrams.

7.26     A number of stakeholders also stated that a greater focus and joined up approach
         is needed for incident learning reviews, flagging issues with attendance (either not
         being invited or limited attendance at reviews). Some concerns were expressed as
         to the extent to which learning reviews led to positive change.




115
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


Communication
7.27   While stakeholders had a good grasp of individual performance improvement
       initiatives, they were less clear about the region’s strategy for performance
       improvement. A number of stakeholders also highlighted that outcomes needed to
       be better tracked and communicated to them.

7.28   In their response, passenger representative organisations highlighted that Network
       Rail had not issued a public acknowledgement or explanation of continued poor
       train performance, had not publicised the measures taken to address underlying
       causes, nor set out when improvement may be seen. Following the launch of the
       investigation and a spate of high profile delay incidents in December 2023 and
       January 2024, the region has been more forthcoming in describing the extent of its
       performance challenges and the steps that it is taking to address them. In
       February 2024 the region publicly shared some additional detail on the actions it
       was taking to improve the Thames Valley corridor along with an expectation that it
       would take eighteen months for the route’s maintenance and infrastructure
       renewals to be back on track, at which point good performance would become
       business as usual. In light of a significant OLE incident on 7 December 2023, the
       need for improved stranded train management and communications was raised by
       passenger representative organisations.

Assets of greatest concern
7.29   Stakeholders highlighted that the condition of track, axle counters, points and
       overhead line were the assets of greatest concern. The head span overhead line
       between Paddington and Airport Junction was of particular concern due to its age
       and the high profile of incidents that have occurred with that overhead line. While
       there are plans to replace the overhead line headspans during CP7, stakeholders
       did not know when this would be.

7.30   There were also concerns expressed about vegetation management, with this
       being a particular priority on the Wales route. While there was recognition of the
       work done to improve the position on vegetation management, there were
       concerns that it would not be sufficient to meet stakeholders’ expectations.

7.31   A few stakeholders also provided feedback that they had observed that both
       planned and ad hoc maintenance has become less timely.

Future risks
7.32   Stakeholders flagged concerns about the impact of the construction of Old Oak
       Common station on train performance, together with the region’s level of funding in




116
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       CP7 (April 2024 to March 2029). Resilience to the impacts of climate change was
       also identified as a key issue, with repeat flooding events highlighting the impact
       adverse weather is having on the network.

Recommendations
7.33   Earlier in our report we made recommendations that have a particular bearing for
       stakeholders given the feedback that they have provided us, namely that Wales &
       Western:

       (a)   Must improve its understanding of why the impacts of incidents are
             increasing (with more delay per incident) and then review its plans to ensure
             they target relevant factors within its control. To improve primary delay and
             overall performance outcomes, it should measure, report and manage
             quantifiable elements of operational response that are within its control
             across the Wales & Western region (recommendation NR1);

       (b)   Must establish clear timebound milestones for its plan to sustainably improve
             asset reliability and sustainability on the Western route out of Paddington
             (Project Brunel) and must track and report delivery against these. It must
             incorporate the more holistic approach being proposed for Project Brunel into
             its Performance Recovery Plan to deliver sustainable improvements across
             the region (recommendation NR2);

       (c)   Should consider how best to drive greater cross-industry engagement on
             delivering system-wide performance, including consideration of a cross-
             industry forum senior governance forum to improve alignment on desired
             industry outcomes and resolve disputes (recommendation NR5); and

       (d)   Must review how it leads learning from complex and multilateral delay
             incidents to make sure that recommendations are fully and effectively
             implemented, and knowledge is shared across the industry. The process
             must include reviewing common themes across the portfolio of incident
             reviews (recommendation NR10).

7.34   In its response to these recommendations, Network Rail should make sure that its
       strategy for train performance improvement is fully understood by train and freight
       operating companies, grounded in root cause analysis and clearly linked to
       individual improvement actions.

7.35   It is essential that Network Rail enables train and freight operating companies to
       better hold it to account for delivery of train performance improvement through




117
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       improved visibility of its plan and regular communication of outputs and outcomes.
       This is particularly pertinent for Project Brunel and performance improvement in
       the Thames Valley corridor.

7.36   Network Rail has described a wide range of engagement touchpoints with its
       stakeholders. It is clear Wales & Western takes stakeholder engagement seriously
       with significant time commitment dedicated to it. As part of our recommendation to
       Network Rail to take a lead in seeking to drive greater cross-industry performance
       improvements, it should also reflect on its stakeholder engagement touchpoints to
       make sure that they are structured to most effectively govern performance
       improvement (NR5).

7.37   Stakeholders have highlighted incident learning as a significant area for Network
       Rail to improve on. In addressing our incident learning recommendation (NR10),
       Network Rail should make sure that it takes a joined-up approach to incident
       learning with train and freight operating companies, to achieve appropriate
       participation in each other’s incident learning reviews and transparency in tracking
       delivery of improvement actions.

7.38   Lastly, we would urge Network Rail to adopt a renewed focus on passenger
       communication to make sure that passengers understand what is driving poor
       performance, what the region is doing to remedy this and when passengers can
       expect improved reliability and punctuality. Network Rail should continue to work
       with train operating companies to achieve timeliness and transparency of
       communications to passengers during delay incidents.




118
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



8. Cross-industry opportunities
8.1     On 14 February 2024, we convened an industry roundtable meeting as part of the
        investigation. The purpose was to take a cross-industry, cross-system view of
        performance in the Wales & Western region, identifying areas that industry can
        collectively work on.

8.2     As a result of industry discussion at that meeting, we asked rail industry
        participants that they collectively consider:

                   (1)   Operational communication: Industry should explore an integrated
                         information system for use by train operating companies and freight
                         operating companies when deviations from the plan occur

                   (2)   Contingency planning: Industry should take steps to develop a simple
                         industry framework to assist operational decision makers about when to
                         prioritise recovery to “timetabled service” vs moving passengers &
                         freight

                   (3)   Incident learning: Industry should take steps to embed and track the
                         implementation of lessons identified - the use of PIMS resources and the
                         Industry Performance Knowledge Hub may help


Recommendation to industry IN3: Industry should consider how to drive forwards
improvements to train performance in Wales & Western which rely on cross-industry
collaboration. This should include securing greater strategic alignment and shared objectives
that can be cascaded to those delivering day-to-day service, strengthening contingency plans
for dealing with delays while retaining flexibility in their application, further roll out of
technology to improve incident response and service recovery and improving cross-industry
learning from incidents.


8.3     A summary note of the roundtable is included at Annex C.




119
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



9. Recommendations
9.1    We have set out below a consolidated list of our recommendations:

Network Rail
9.2    Recommendation NR1: Network Rail must improve its understanding of why the
       impacts of incidents are increasing (with more delay per incident) and then review
       its plans to ensure they target relevant factors within its control. To improve
       primary delay and overall performance outcomes, it should measure, report and
       manage quantifiable elements of operational response that are within its control
       across the Wales & Western region.

9.3    Recommendation NR2: Network Rail must establish clear timebound milestones
       for its plan to sustainably improve asset reliability and sustainability on the
       Western route out of Paddington (Project Brunel) and must track and report
       delivery against these. It must incorporate the more holistic approach being
       proposed for Project Brunel into its Performance Recovery Plan to deliver
       sustainable improvements across the region.

9.4    Recommendation NR3: Wales & Western’s leadership must focus on strong
       performance governance and accountability to drive a performance-led culture. In
       particular, it must review whether its current structure, with infrastructure
       management separated from route accountability, supports effective decision
       making and performance management. In the past, Western has primarily been
       focused on long distance passenger and freight flows – in recognition that there
       are now more regional stakeholders with different priorities (including metro-style
       services), Wales & Western should drive an organisational and cultural change
       programme to ensure it better manages its stakeholders’ varied and potentially
       competing needs.

9.5    Recommendation NR4: Network Rail must carry out an ex-post review of its
       timetable modelling carried out for the introduction of Elizabeth Line services, to
       ensure it learns lessons and applies these in planning for future major changes –
       such as the introduction of HS2. Network Rail should consider whether its
       timetable modelling capability should be augmented to take better account of the
       change’s impact on asset condition, reliability and resilience – and therefore train
       performance – rather than core performance of the timetable alone.




120
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

9.6    Recommendation NR5: Network Rail should consider how best to drive greater
       cross-industry engagement on delivering system-wide performance, including
       consideration of a cross-industry senior governance forum to improve alignment
       on desired industry outcomes and resolve disputes.

9.7    Recommendation NR6: Network Rail must review its ongoing access
       requirements and arrangements for delivering inspection, maintenance, renewal
       and repair works (building on the approach being developed for Project Brunel) to
       ensure it can manage its assets in a sustainable way while meeting the needs of
       its customers. This should include looking at best practice being adopted in other
       routes which are similarly heavily-trafficked and assessing the scope for better use
       of tools and technology.

9.8    Recommendation NR7: Network Rail should deliver on its plans to minimise
       causes of delay arising from poor asset reliability. This should include continuing
       to target the root causes that lead to temporary speed restrictions on any line of
       route and to ensure it is maximising its use of leading indicators of future
       problems.

9.9    Recommendation NR8: In support of its strategic plan to improve asset reliability
       and sustainability on the Western route out of Paddington (Project Brunel),
       Network Rail must provide a clear, timebound plan for renewing the overhead line
       headspans from Paddington to Heathrow Airport Junction and a mitigation plan to
       ensure reliability until that work is complete.

9.10   Recommendation NR9: Network Rail should continue to focus on ways to
       maximise timetable resilience to basic perturbation within the possibilities of the
       existing specification, learning from best practice in other routes.

9.11   Recommendation NR10: Network Rail must review how it leads learning from
       complex and multilateral delay incidents to make sure that recommendations are
       fully and effectively implemented, and knowledge is shared across the industry.
       The process must include reviewing common themes across the portfolio of
       incident reviews.




121
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

9.12   Recommendation NR11: Network Rail should continue to deliver improved
       operational and signalling capability, establishing and delivering against a clear
       timebound plan and developing a suite of indicators to measure capability. To
       support development of its operational capability. Network Rail should ensure that
       future significant operational changes – such as the adoption of new decision
       support technologies – have appropriate business change programmes (including
       consideration of human factors) to support their introduction.

Industry
9.13   Recommendation to industry IN1: Industry should review how it can ensure
       processes for planning major service upgrades and fully consider the cumulative
       impact of successive major changes, including on asset condition and reliability,
       when identifying supporting work required.

9.14   Recommendation to industry IN2: Industry should consider how to provide
       greater clarity about the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities of the ESG and
       related specification processes to help drive improvements in oversight of, and
       planning for, major change.

9.15   Recommendation to industry IN3: Industry should consider how to drive
       forwards improvements to train performance in Wales & Western which rely on
       cross-industry collaboration. This should include securing greater strategic
       alignment and shared objectives that can be cascaded to those delivering day-to-
       day service, strengthening contingency plans for dealing with delays while
       retaining flexibility in their application, further roll out of technology to improve
       incident response and service recovery and improving cross-industry learning from
       incidents.




122
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Annexes




123
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Annex A: Network Licence conditions
         of focus for the
         investigation
In our letter to Network Rail initiating the investigation, we stated that the investigation
would focus on the following Network Licence conditions 1 (network management), 3
(sufficient resources) and 5 (asset management). These conditions are listed below:

1      Core Duties
Network Management Duty
1.1    The “Network Management Purpose” is to secure:
       (a)    the operation and maintenance of the Network;
       (b)    the renewal and replacement of the Network; and
       (c)    the improvement, enhancement and development of the Network,
       in each case in accordance with best practice and in a timely, efficient and
       economical manner so as to satisfy the requirements set out in Condition 1.2.
1.2    For these purposes, the requirements are the reasonable requirements of persons
       providing services relating to railways and Funders, including Potential Providers or
       Potential Funders, in respect of:
       (a)    the quality and capability of the Network; and
       (b)    the facilitation of railway service performance in respect of services for the
              carriage of passengers and goods by railway operating on the Network.
1.3    The licence holder shall achieve the Network Management Purpose to the greatest
       extent reasonably practicable having regard to all relevant circumstances including
       the ability of the licence holder to finance its Licensed Activities (the “Network
       Management Duty”).
1.4    In complying with the Network Management Duty, the licence holder shall in
       particular ensure that it duly takes into account the interests of all classes of
       passenger operator and freight operator in satisfying the requirements set out in
       Condition 1.2.
Stakeholder Engagement Duty
1.7    The “Stakeholder Engagement Purpose” is to ensure that the licence holder treats
       Stakeholders in ways appropriate to their reasonable requirements in their capacity
       as Stakeholders.




124
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

1.8   The licence holder shall achieve the Stakeholder Engagement Purpose and, in
      particular, shall, to the greatest extent practicable:
      (a)    deal with Stakeholders with due efficiency and economy, in a timely manner
             and with the degree of skill, diligence, prudence and foresight which should
             be exercised by a skilled and experienced network facility owner and
             operator; and
      (b)    ensure that its engagement with Stakeholders is:
             (i)     effective in supporting the licence holder’s achievement of the
                     Network Management Purpose and the Passenger Information
                     Purpose, including by ensuring Stakeholders’ views are duly taken
                     into account;
             (ii)    inclusive, in that the licence holder seeks to involve all relevant
                     Stakeholders in a fair and proportionate manner, including by adopting
                     different approaches to reflect Stakeholders’ different capabilities and
                     interests;
             (iii)   well-governed, in that it is underpinned by effective processes and
                     governance arrangements; and
             (iv)    transparent, in that sufficient information is made available to enable
                     effective engagement with Stakeholders
(the “Stakeholder Engagement Duty”).
Route Business and System Operator responsibilities
1.9   Each Route Business and the System Operator shall comply with the Core Duties in
      the performance of their functions.
3     Sufficient Resources
3.1   The licence holder shall at all times act in a manner calculated to secure that it has
      available sufficient Resources, on such terms and with all such rights as shall:
      (a)    enable it to properly and efficiently carry on the Permitted Business, including
             properly taking into account the interests of freight operators and the
             interests of passenger operators in respect of services which cross more
             than one Route Area;
      (b)    enable the Route Businesses and the System Operator to properly and
             efficiently perform their functions; and
      (c)    enable it to comply in all respects with its obligations under the Act and this
             licence.
Route Business and System Operator responsibilities




125
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

3.2   Each Route Business shall at all times act in a manner calculated to secure that it
      has available sufficient Resources, on such terms and with all such rights as shall
      enable it to:
      (a)    properly and efficiently carry on its Route Functions, including complying in
             all respects with its obligations under this licence; and
      (b)    comply in all respects with the licence holder’s obligations under the Act in
             the performance of its Route Functions.
5     General network management responsibilities
Asset management policies and criteria
5.5   In complying with the Network Management Duty, the licence holder shall:
      (a)    adopt policies and criteria in respect of the maintenance, renewal,
             replacement, improvement, enhancement and development of the Relevant
             Assets, which demonstrate how the licence holder will comply with the
             Network Management Duty (including satisfying the reasonable requirements
             of freight operators and the reasonable requirements of passenger operators
             in respect of passenger services which cross more than one Route Area);
      (b)    from time to time and whenever directed by ORR review and, if necessary,
             revise any such adopted policies and criteria to ensure that they continue to
             demonstrate how the licence holder will comply with the Network
             Management Duty;
      (c)    in its development and revision of those policies and criteria, consult each
             Route Business and the System Operator; and (d) make appropriate
             information about the policies and criteria which it has adopted readily
             accessible to persons providing services relating to railways and Funders,
             including Potential Providers and Potential Funders.
5.6   The licence holder shall apply the policies and criteria which it has adopted.
6     Route Business network management responsibilities
Asset management policies and criteria
6.6   Each Route Business shall apply the policies and criteria adopted under Condition
      5.5 in the performance of its Route Functions.
Maintaining asset information
6.7   Each Route Business shall maintain appropriate information about the Relevant
      Assets which have been allocated to it by the licence holder, including information
      about their condition, capability and capacity.
6.8   The information maintained under Condition 6.7 must be accurate and readily
      accessible.




126
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Annex B:                  Holding to account
B.1    ORR’s core purpose is to protect the interests of rail and road users, improving the
       safety, value and performance of railways and roads today and in the future.

B.2    ORR will monitor and hold Network Rail to account against its network licence.
       Network Rail has three central obligations within the licence.

       ●    Securing the operation, maintenance, renewal and enhancement of the
            network in order to satisfy the reasonable requirements of its customers and
            funders.

       ●    Engaging with all stakeholders in ways appropriate to their reasonable
            requirements.

       ●    Providing information to enable train operators to meet their obligations to
            passengers, so that passengers can plan and make their journeys with
            confidence.

B.3    ORR’s Holding to Account policy sets out how we monitor performance to identify
       if we need to act and sets out the steps we may take to secure improvement. This
       could include both early intervention and the use of our formal enforcement
       powers. Our approach is outcomes-focused, recognising the need for any actions
       to be risk-based, targeted, proportionate and transparent.




127
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Annex C: Industry Roundtable
         Meeting
On 14 February 2024, ORR convened an industry roundtable meeting in Bristol as part of
the investigation. The purpose was to take a cross-industry, cross-system view of
performance in the Wales & Western region, identifying areas that industry can collectively
work on. A summary of the meeting is provided below.

Attendees: ORR (chair), Network Rail (Wales & Western and System Operator), MTR
Elizabeth Line, Great Western Railway, Heathrow Express, CrossCountry, Transport for
Wales Rail, DB Cargo, GB Railfreight, Freightliner, and Transport for London

Item 1         WELCOME

            1. The Chair welcomed all the participants.

            2. He explained that ORR had initiated an investigation into Wales & Western
            because train performance in the Wales & Western region was not where it is
            expected to be and continuing to show a negative trend. The purpose of the
            roundtable was to take a cross-industry, cross-system view of performance,
            identifying areas that industry can collectively work on.

Item 2         CHALLENGES IN THE SHORT TERM

Identification of industry challenges

         3. Roundtable participants discussed the key industry challenges in the region. The
            following challenges were identified:

                   •   Change management – the magnitude and effect of major change on
                   the network and operational assets across the region.
                   • Climate resilience – the imbalance between the scale of the climate
                   challenge and funding on operations, maintenance and renewal;
                   managing vegetation, particularly across Wales’ coastal railway.
                   • Network assets – underlying asset reliability; the extent to which the
                   capacity and capability of assets were being maximised.
                   • Whole system approach – the competing demands of satisfying
                   different markets on the railway; tension between the operational
                   priorities of stakeholders in the region and the need for a more customer-
                   centric approach; greater consideration of the effect of late notice access
                   requests and the use of temporary speed restrictions; the requirement for
                   sufficient focus on areas outside of the Thames Valley while recognising
                   the importance of that location for the network.
                   • Regional operating culture: other regions were identified as having
                   a greater focus on getting trains moving again following incidents, quicker




128
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

                   and more effective incident response; other route directors may have
                   more direct decision-making levers for asset management and
                   engineering at their disposal due to historic organisational differences, as
                   in Wales & Western these have been set up as a regional activity;
                   frontline staff need to feel more empowered to make good operating
                   decisions.
                   • Specific local operating challenges: Network Rail identified
                   challenges with recent high signaller turnover in the region and described
                   its approach to forward resource planning; a possible lack of alignment
                   between signallers’ and controllers’ approaches at the Thames Valley
                   Signalling Centre and Swindon Control Centre. Examples highlighted
                   smaller and more integrated control centres, including in Wales, where
                   information-sharing and immediate communication supported getting
                   trains moving more quickly. A participant observed that there was scope
                   for greater coordination between control systems across the industry.

            4. There was general agreement that new senior Network Rail staff in the
            region were having a positive impact so far.

Item 3         INDUSTRY COLLABORATION

Lessons drawn from Control Period 6 and opportunities for cross-industry improvement

         5. The Chair introduced the session by asking what cross-industry improvement
            measures could be taken forward in light of the challenges participants had
            identified. Participants identified the following immediate opportunity areas:

            6. Local railway initiatives: examples such as the Cambrian Coast and Devon
            & Cornwall Local Railway initiatives (multi-organisation with shared targets and
            P&L) have shown the benefits of developing location-specific management units
            for performance, customer service and financial efficiency. However, scaling this
            to a multi-operator, multi-funder railway was likely to be more challenging.

            7. Operational communication: there is an opportunity to develop
            shared/open systems to enable stakeholders to have common visibility of
            network status and problems on the network, which could assist better joint
            decision-making.

            8. Contingency planning: Participants highlighted the importance of design
            and implementation of contingency plans. Key points that emerged were:

                   •   Right outcome: the best approach depends on circumstances such
                   as incident time of day; greater consideration for how to assess the best
                   outcome for contingency plans – whether moving passengers, particular
                   performance measures or overall delay. Could modelling be used to
                   understand likely outcomes better.
                   • Flexibility: There should be sufficient flexibility in contingency
                   planning and empowered decision-making within a framework.




129
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



         9. Management of access: while recognising short-term need for additional
         access during asset recovery, participants highlighted opportunities for better
         management and more effective use of engineering access.

               •   Using access differently: such as putting more activities into granted
               access, or looking differently at the days of the week/hours of the day for
               disruptive possessions;
               • Late notice changes to possessions: late notice changes are highly
               disruptive. Compliance with the Draft Period Possession Plan timescales
               can help deliver a well-planned, predictable and high performing railway.
               • Demonstrating the benefits of possessions: improved explanation
               of the benefits of series of possessions, to help inform any compromises
               that may be needed to grant access to Network Rail and support
               stakeholder management. This should include raising awareness that
               some access requests are required to maintain asset compliance and are
               not evaluated on a performance merits basis. Objections of one party
               should not impede critical interventions if it is shown objectively to be the
               best way to deliver.
               • Dispute resolution: parties should be prepared to use the dispute
               resolution processes through to conclusion to resolve conflicts, if
               appropriate.

         Incident learning reviews (ILRs): there must be processes to ensure learning
         from incidents (inside and outside the region) is built in to operational and
         engineering processes. These should move from specifics to consider wider
         applications for improvement. The industry peer review in 2023 provided a
         useful foundation, but further work is required.

         Role of ORR: ORR may be able to assist by looking at how to make sure any
         metrics and incentives (such as On Time, schedule 8 or schedule 4) do not drive
         unintended consequences for passengers and freight customers.




130
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Annex D: List of acronyms
 Acronym                                   Definition

 ARS                                       Automatic Route Setting

 CP                                        Control Period (control period 6 (CP6) and
                                           control period 7 (CP7)

 CRI                                       Composite Reliability Index

 CRM-P                                     Consistent Region Measure - Performance

 DfT                                       Department for Transport

 DPI                                       Delay Per Incident

 E&P                                       Electrification and Plant

 ESG                                       Event Steering Group

 ESR                                       Emergency Speed Restriction

 FDM-R                                     Freight Delivery Metric by Region

 FNPO                                      Freight & National Passenger Operators

 FOC                                       Freight Operating Company

 GWEP                                      Great Western Electrification Project

 GWR                                       Great Western Railway

 HST                                       High Speed Train or InterCity 125

 ILR                                       Incident Learning Review

 ITSR                                      Integrated Train Service Recovery

 JSP                                       Joint Performance Strategies

 MOM                                       Mobile Operations Manager




131
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


 Acronym                                   Definition

 NR                                        Network Rail

 OLE                                       Overhead Line Equipment

 ORR                                       Office of Rail and Road

 PIMS                                      Performance Improvement Management
                                           System

 PMO                                       Programme Management Office

 PRP                                       Performance Recovery Plan

 PSR                                       Permanent Speed Restriction

 RAM                                       Route Asset Manager

 RAPT                                      Reliability and Performance Tool

 RBM                                       Risk-based Maintenance

 RfLI                                      Rail for London Infrastructure

 RM3P                                      Region Management Maturity Model for
                                           Performance

 RSSB                                      Rail Safety and Standards Board

 SAF                                       Service Affecting Failures

 SIP                                       Strategic Improvement Platform

 SPIR                                      Significant Performance Incident Review

 TfW                                       Transport for Wales

 TOC                                       Train Operating Company

 tph                                       Trains per hour

 TRI                                       Track Reliability Index




132
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


 Acronym                                   Definition

 TSR                                       Temporary Speed Restriction

 TVSC                                      Thames Valley Signalling Centre

 WRCCA                                     Weather Resilience and Climate Change
                                           Adaptation




133
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Annex E: Comparison of Wales &
         Western asset base to
         network wide
 Network-     Asset base and measure       Year      Year      Year       Year
 wide or      description                  2019/20   2020/21   2021/22    2022/23
 region
 Network-     Track - % Used Life – Rail     54%       55%       56%        56%
 wide
 Wales &      Track - % Used Life – Rail     51%       52%       53%        53%
 Western
 Network-     Track - % Used Life -          51%       51%       50%        51%
 wide         Switches & Crossings
 Wales &      Track - % Used Life -          50%       50%       50%        51%
 Western      Switches & Crossings
 Network-     Track - % Used Life –          67%       68%       69%        69%
 wide         Sleepers
 Wales &      Track - % Used Life –          65%       66%       66%        67%
 Western      Sleepers
 Network-     Track - % Used Life –          52%       53%       54%        55%
 wide         Ballast
 Wales &      Track - % Used Life –          51%       52%       53%        54%
 Western      Ballast
 Network-     EP - Remaining Life -        60.30%    59.17%     58.03%     57.09%
 wide         Overhead Line Equipment
              (OLE) (%)
 Wales &      EP - Remaining Life -        91.93%    90.56%     89.18%     87.81%
 Western      Overhead Line Equipment
              (OLE) (%)
 Network-     EP - Remaining Life -        49.80%    48.08%     46.79%     45.14%
 wide         Signalling Power Cable
              (%)
 Wales &      EP - Remaining Life -        60.55%    58.88%     57.22%     56.30%
 Western      Signalling Power Cable
              (%)
 Network-     Average condition of minor    64.57     66.25      66.36      66.3
 wide         deck elements (PLBE)
 Wales &      Average condition of minor    60.42     63.07      63.01     62.71
 Western      deck elements (PLBE)
 Network-     Total Signalling Condition     14.9      14.8      14.6       14.5
 wide         Index (SICA Remaining
              Life)




134
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


 Network-      Asset base and measure         Year         Year       Year         Year
 wide or       description                    2019/20      2020/21    2021/22      2022/23
 region
 Wales &       Total Signalling Condition        14.3        13.7        13.7         13.3
 Western       Index (SICA Remaining
               Life)
 Network-      Mechanical Signalling             10.4        10.1         9.8         9.9
 wide          Condition Index (SICA
               Remaining Life)
 Wales &       Mechanical Signalling               -          7.3         7.9         8.7
 Western       Condition Index (SICA
               Remaining Life)
 Network-      Relay Signalling Condition        12.3        12.4        11.9         11.7
 wide          Index (SICA Remaining
               Life)
 Wales &       Relay Signalling Condition          -           9           9          9.2
 Western       Index (SICA Remaining
               Life)
 Network-      Electronic Signalling             17.7        17.3        17.3         17.1
 wide          Condition Index (SICA
               Remaining Life)
 Wales &       Electronic Signalling               -         18.2        17.6         16.6
 Western       Condition Index (SICA
               Remaining Life)

Source: Network Rail Annual Return 2023 (Network-Rail-Infrastructure-Limited-annual-
return-2023-data-tables.xlsx (live.com))
Explanation of table
E.1     As with any portfolio analysis there will be assets within each asset family that are
        at the extreme edges of the age / condition distribution.

Track
E.2     The sustainability of track assets is measured by the percentage of used life for
        plain line rail, switches and crossings (S&C), sleepers and ballast. Used life for
        track assets is based on the average service life established from the type of
        asset. In reality, there are other influences on track deterioration such as the local
        environmental and geological conditions, train designs and wheel set conditions.
        There are also variable requirements for the useful life of the asset, such as line
        performance requirements and track access for maintenance. This means that the
        actual track service life can vary.

E.3     The calculation of the average service life for plain line rail, S&C and sleepers is
        based on the annual tonnage that has passed over the asset through its lifetime




135
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

       and the assets’ characteristics that affect the rate of wear and fatigue on the asset.
       The used service life for each asset is accumulated year on year from its
       installation, dependent on the traffic running over it. Ballast sustainability is defined
       by the percentage of the ballast void (the space between ballast stones) that is
       filled up with dust and fines. This can be a result of wear and fatigue on the asset,
       such as erosion due to traffic. This gives an indication of the average life of the
       asset. It is then possible to calculate the used life of that asset.

E.4    A lower percentage represents better sustainability.

Electrical power
E.5    Asset condition sustainability for electrical power assesses the remaining life of
       three main asset types in the electrical power portfolio: conductor rail, Overhead
       Line Equipment (OLE) and Signalling Power Supply (SPS) cable. The remaining
       life is the time until the asset must be replaced, as a percentage of the total life of
       the asset. The calculation method for each asset type is set out below.

E.6    The remaining life of a distinct section of conductor rail (measured in kilometres) is
       the percentage of the maximum allowable wear that remains. The maximum
       allowable wear varies according to the type of conductor rail and the electrical
       protection characteristics.

E.7    The remaining life for a wire run of OLE is the percentage of the Asset Technical
       Life (ATL) that remains. The Asset Technical Life is the point at which, on average,
       the asset would, based on engineering judgement, reach the end of its useful life.
       ATL reflects differences in versions of asset type, and utilisation.

E.8    For a given SPS cable, remaining life is a percentage of the ATL that remains. The
       ATL is the average age at which the asset would reach the end of its useful life,
       based on engineering standard and reflecting differences in cable types. Current
       age is a parameter for condition and is the difference between the current year
       and the year of installation of the cable.

E.9    For all asset types, a higher figure indicates better performance.

Deck elements
E.10   The average condition of major deck elements assesses Network Rail owned
       overbridges and underbridges. Footbridges, third party bridges and major
       structures are excluded. The purpose of this measure is to help provide assurance
       that we are managing our bridges sustainably. Major deck elements attract a large
       amount of investment, and typically degrade faster than the substructures.




136
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report

E.11   A higher number indicates better performance.

Signalling
E.12   The sustainability of signalling assets is measured in terms of average remaining
       life of Network Rail signalling infrastructure. Signalling Infrastructure Condition
       Assessment (SICA) is a process by which signalling assets are graded according
       to their condition. The process requires the inspection of signalling assets in the
       form of either primary or secondary inspections.

E.13   Primary inspections are performed every five years from commissioning until
       predicted remaining life is less than ten years. Once predicted remaining life of the
       asset is less than ten years, secondary inspections are performed every three
       years until predicted remaining life is less than three years. Following this point,
       secondary inspections are performed annually. Secondary inspections encompass
       all elements of primary inspections and some additional elements.

E.14   Inspections are performed on a sample of the signalling infrastructure within the
       area of the railway controlled by an interlocking, and a condition grading is
       assigned to the assets. Condition grading is primarily based upon the remaining
       life of the equipment in a signalling interlocking area, and to a lesser extent the
       condition of line side signalling. Network Rail uses the SICA tool to assess the
       remaining life of these assets, which applies algorithms and weightings based on
       the criticality of each asset to the overall signalling system.

E.15   A higher figure indicates better performance.




137
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report



Annex F: ESG and TSR list with the
         number of sites with no
         planned removal date
 Site Name      Problem              Removal Details            Date       Removal
                                                                Imposed    Date

 Wanstrow       Track geometry       Condition of Track and     07 March   TBC
                and severe           Wetbeds. Construction      2017
                wetbeds              Services delivering
                                     wetbed removal in
                                     Weeks 29, 33, 34, 35,
                                     36 and 44. DU sleeper
                                     changing plans TBC.
 Frome          Longitudinal         Structure Repairs and      19 March   TBC
                Timber holding       Track Renewal planned      2021
                down system,         Christmas 2023.
                sleeper condition,
                track geometry
                and bridge
                strength
 Pontsmill      Structural defect    Major work planned         02         TBC
 Viaduct        on Pontsmill         2025. Minor work in the    December
                Viaduct              interim to maintain 5/10   2021
                                     TSR.
 Tytherington Track geometry,        Speed split from           01          TBC
              rail, sleeper, and     T2023/203361 on            November
              ballast condition      16/11/2023.                2022
 Tytherington Track geometry,        Speed split from           01          TBC
              rail, sleeper, and     T2023/203361 on            November
              ballast condition      16/11/2023.                2022
 Walcot Farm Wing wall defect        Further ground             25 February TBC
 Bridge                              investigation required     2023
                                     on Down side for 1x
                                     wing wall. Repairs
                                     Weeks 35-38 on other
                                     Down side wing wall.




138
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


 Site Name      Problem              Removal Details            Date         Removal
                                                                Imposed      Date

 Greenslade     Bridge strength      Bridge strength speed      01 April     TBC
 Bridge                              pending Network            2023
                                     Change.
 Northolt       HS2 works            HS2 works causing          23 August    TBC
                causing ground       ground movement. HS2       2023
                movement             manually packing for
                                     now. 6-monthly cyclical
                                     tamping plan in place.
                                     End date for HS2 works
                                     23/06/2024.
 Barnwood       Cracked obtuse       New crossing               30 August    TBC
 683 Obtuse     crossing - 683       (SC120939) promise         2023
                points               date now 04/12/2023,
                                     removal now planned
                                     09/12/2023.
 Rose Farm      Crest drain being    Crest drain cleared,       31 August    TBC
 Cutting        overwhelmed by       monitoring being           2023
                run off from third   installed but timescales
                party land           not yet known. Added to
                                     adverse weather site
                                     list. Speed removal
                                     plans TBC.
 Sonning        Bump report          Work lost in Week 30       08           TBC
 Cutting                             due to RRVs being          September
                                     unable to access track.    2023
                                     Being replanned for
                                     Week 38 subject to
                                     integration with
                                     renewals.
 Portobello     Track geometry       RailVac removing           31 October   TBC
                and wetbeds          wetbeds in Week 45.        2023
 Ruscombe       Bump report          New speed, being           25           TBC
 to Waltham                          tamped Week 37.            November
                                                                2023




139
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report


 Site Name      Problem             Removal Details         Date          Removal
                                                            Imposed       Date

 Acton East     Cracked crossing    New crossing to be      03            TBC
                - 8121A             installed, date TBC.    December
                                                            2023
 UM126          Signal sighting -   UM126 obscured by       07            TBC
                UM126               vegetation, 100yds      December
                                    sighting available.     2023
 Denchworth     Cyclic top          New speed.              08            TBC
 Cyclic Top                                                 December
                                                            2023
 Bedlam         Track geometry      Track renewal planned                 TBC
                and severe          Christmas 2023.
                wetbeds




140
Office of Rail and Road | Wales & Western region - investigation report




© Crown copyright 2024
This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise
stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3
Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the
copyright holders concerned.
This publication is available at orr.gov.uk
Any enquiries regarding this publication should be sent to us at orr.gov.uk/contact-us




141
