Northern Trains Limited:
Investigation report
3 March 2026




               Page 1 of 30
               Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




Contents
      Executive summary ..................................................................................................... 3
      1. Investigation background ..................................................................................... 5
      Introduction .................................................................................................................... 5
      ORR Investigation overview .......................................................................................... 6
      Condition 5 of Northern’s licences ................................................................................. 7
      Conduct of the investigation........................................................................................... 7
      2. Accessible Travel Policy (ATP)............................................................................. 8
      Introduction .................................................................................................................... 8
      Disability awareness training ......................................................................................... 8
      3. Timeframe, scale and impact .............................................................................. 10
      Timeframe and scale ................................................................................................... 10
      Impact on disabled passengers ................................................................................... 13
      4. Underlying causes ............................................................................................... 15
      Northern’s internal audit findings ................................................................................. 15
      5. Assurance and improvements ............................................................................ 17
      Recent training ............................................................................................................ 17
      Will a similar situation arise in future?.......................................................................... 18
      6. Annexes ................................................................................................................ 20
      Annex A: Terms of reference of investigation .............................................................. 21
      Annex B: Chronology of events ................................................................................... 23
      Annex C: Follow up questions issued as part of investigation ...................................... 26
      Annex D: Supporting data............................................................................................ 29




Page 2 of 30
               Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




 Executive summary
 On 4 December 2025, ORR opened a formal licence investigation into Northern Trains
 Limited (Northern) to establish if it had contravened or was contravening Condition 5
 (Accessible Travel Policy) of its GB Statement of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRP):
 Passenger and Station Licence. Northern has engaged constructively throughout our
 investigation.

 Condition 5 in both the GB SNRP: Passenger and Station Licences states: The holder
 shall establish and thereafter comply with an Accessible Travel Policy (ATP). ATPs set out
 how operators will protect the interests of disabled users of their trains and stations, and
 cover areas such as provision of assistance, staff training and passenger information.
 Operators must secure ORR’s approval for their ATPs and comply with the commitments
 they make.

 In 2024, Northern agreed a passenger assistance improvement plan with ORR designed to
 tackle poor performance in delivering reliable assistance as identified through ORR’s
 Experiences of Passenger Assist survey. Northern made good progress in delivering the
 actions it set out in its plan and we wrote to Northern in July 2025 confirming that, over the
 year ahead, our focus would shift to monitoring the realisation of benefits for passengers.

 However, in August 2025 new reporting requirements for all operators revealed that
 around 800 Northern passenger facing staff had not received disability awareness training.
 This gap had not been identified or addressed in the passenger assistance improvement
 plan. Northern took action to deliver training to station staff and, on 4 November 2025,
 reported that it had fulfilled the plan.

 Notwithstanding the delivery of training in October 2025, given the range of issues raised
 previously, we continued to have concerns about Northern’s historic and ongoing
 compliance. The licence investigation that we opened in December 2025 focused on
 commitments that Northern makes in its Accessible Travel Policy relating to disability
 awareness training and included:

      •   The timeframe over which staff who had not received required training were
          interacting with disabled passengers, and the scale and impact of the issue;

      •   The circumstances that led to staff not receiving training when required and
          how the issue remained unresolved and unreported during this timeframe;

      •   How Northern can assure itself, its passengers and ORR that:
Page 3 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report


          i)      The recent training has been effective and is enabling staff to meet
                  the required training outcomes, and
          ii)     A similar situation will not arise in future.

 The main sources of information have come from Northern itself, including a response on
 17 December 2025 to questions issued as part of the investigation, and a response on 4
 February 2026 to our Case to Answer letter.

 Summary of findings
 Northern has been developing disability awareness training plans and materials for its staff
 since 2021, when its ATP was established. Northern has stated that both induction and
 refresher training have been delivered to conductors. However, induction training for new
 station staff has only been provided since late 2023 and the evidence indicates that most
 station staff did not have access to disability awareness refresher training until 2025.

 Staff at Northern’s ten busiest stations received training that addressed some of the
 mandatory training outcomes in 2025, as part of Northern’s passenger assistance
 improvement plan, and disability awareness refresher training was delivered to station staff
 across Northern’s network in October 2025. A gap remains for some staff with respect to
 one of the mandatory training outcomes (outcome 9), which Northern aims to resolve by
 July 2026.

 Disability awareness training is intended to equip staff with the tools to better understand
 the needs of disabled passengers and how these can best be met to support their journeys
 on the rail network. Northern has acknowledged the impact on disabled passengers caused
 by the gap in training provision.

 Northern’s own internal audit, conducted in December 2025, identified a number of
 systemic issues relating to governance processes, monitoring and controls as key
 issues that led to the failure to deliver training to staff. Northern did not make ORR aware
 of gaps in provision of disability awareness training until it reported data under new
 reporting requirements in August 2025.

 The training undertaken by Northern in October 2025 went a significant way towards
 closing the training gap for station staff. However, until systemic issues are addressed
 there is a risk that similar issues with disability awareness training could re-occur.

 Northern has set out actions that it plans to take aimed at resolving systemic issues.
 These are tailored to address the issues identified in Northern’s internal audit with some
 actions already complete and most to be completed by end March 2026.

Page 4 of 30
               Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




 1. Investigation background
 Introduction
    1.1. ORR holds operators to account against the commitments they make in their
         Accessible Travel Policies (ATPs), which cover areas such as provision of
         assistance, staff training and passenger information.

    1.2. To inform our engagement with operators, we have been surveying passengers on
         their experiences of booked assistance on an ongoing basis since 2017,
         and publish findings annually.

    1.3. Northern was the poorest performer in our survey from 2020-2024 for the reliability
         of assistance. At our request, Northern carried out an assessment of the gaps in
         the passenger assistance service and proposed a passenger assistance
         improvement plan. Staff training is central to the safe, reliable and effective
         delivery of assistance to passengers, and the improvement plan included delivery
         of some staff training, for example refresher disability awareness training for
         conductors.

    1.4. In December 2024, we confirmed that ORR would hold Northern accountable for
         the delivery of its passenger assistance improvement plan. Northern made good
         progress implementing the actions in its plan, and we wrote to Northern in July
         2025 confirming that, over the year ahead, our focus would shift to monitoring the
         realisation of benefits for passengers.

    1.5. However, in August 2025 our new reporting requirements for all operators revealed
         that around 800 Northern passenger facing staff, consisting of station-based staff
         and revenue protection officers, had not received disability awareness training.
         This gap had not been identified or addressed in the passenger assistance
         improvement plan.

    1.6. Our new reporting requirements involve quarterly submissions from all operators
         on the numbers of staff who have not received required disability awareness
         training. The reporting replaces previous biannual engagement with operators on
         compliance with disability awareness training requirements and better reflects that
         this is now a rolling business-as-usual activity for operators.

    1.7. In September 2025 we asked Northern to explain how it intended to ensure that all
         relevant staff receive appropriate training. The level of information provided in the
Page 5 of 30
               Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report


        response was not sufficient to provide us with confidence about the pace or quality of
        training provision, or that it would result in staff able to demonstrate the mandatory
        training outcomes.

    1.8. In October 2025, we requested a full plan, setting out how Northern would ensure
         that station staff are able to meet the mandatory training outcomes set out in our
         ATP guidance. The plan that Northern submitted was ambitious and aimed to
         deliver training to all staff who required it over a 4-week period and be completed
         by 31 October 2025. On 4 November 2025, Northern reported that it had fulfilled
         the plan.

    1.9. This action by Northern was a rapid response that aimed to ensure that all station
         staff had received disability awareness training. However, we had outstanding
         questions and concerns, in particular around whether Northern had taken the steps
         necessary to gain assurance that the plan had delivered the intended outcomes
         and to prevent a similar situation from arising again. As a result, we decided to
         open a formal licence investigation.

 ORR Investigation overview
    1.10. On 4 December 2025, ORR opened a formal licence investigation into Northern
          to establish if it had contravened or was contravening condition 5 (Accessible
          Travel Policy) of its GB Statement of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRP):
          Passenger and Station licence.

    1.11. The scope of the investigation focused on commitments that Northern makes in
          its Accessible Travel Policy relating to disability awareness training and
          included:

           •     The timeframe over which staff who had not received required training were
                 interacting with disabled passengers, and the scale and impact of the issue;

           •     The circumstances that led to staff not receiving training when required and
                 how the issue remained unresolved and unreported during this timeframe;

           •     How Northern can assure itself, its passengers and ORR that:

                i)     The recent training has been effective and is enabling staff to meet
                       the required training outcomes, and

                ii)    A similar situation will not arise in future.


Page 6 of 30
               Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



    1.12. The main sources of information have come from Northern itself, following the
          data submission on 12 August 2025. They include information shared with ORR
          on 4 September 2025 and 15 October 2025 as part of our early compliance
          engagement, a response on 17 December 2025 to questions issued as part of
          the investigation, and a response on 4 February 2026 to our Case to Answer
          letter.

    1.13. We have also considered information and data relating to Northern and other
          operators as part of our business as usual (BAU) regulatory activities, including
          our passenger assistance satisfaction surveys and passenger complaints.

 Condition 5 of Northern’s licences
    1.14. Condition 5: Accessible Travel Policy in the GB SNRP: Passenger states:

           “The SNRP holder shall establish and thereafter comply with:

           (a) a statement of policy; and

           (b) a detailed body of arrangements, procedures, services and other benefits to
              be implemented or provided by the SNRP holder,

           designed to protect the interests of people who are disabled in their use of trains
           operated by the SNRP holder and to facilitate such use (together the “ATP”).”

    1.15. The full text of the Condition is set out in the model passenger licence.

    1.16. Condition 5 of the Station Licence is identical except it refers to stations rather
          than trains.

    1.17. Operators can only establish, or make material changes to, their ATP with
          approval from ORR.

    1.18. Each operator is held to account against the commitments they make in their
          approved ATP.

 Conduct of the investigation
    1.19. The terms of reference of this investigation as set out in our initiation letter of 4
          December 2025 issued to Northern is provided in Annex A.

    1.20. This investigation has been carried out in line with our Economic Enforcement
           Policy.


Page 7 of 30
               Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




 2. Accessible Travel Policy (ATP)
 Introduction
    2.1. ORR has published detailed guidance for train and station operators setting out the
         criteria that ORR will normally adopt in approving each operator’s Accessible
         Travel Policy. That guidance sets out expectations relating to the provision of
         disability awareness training for passenger-facing staff (section B6) and defines
         mandatory training outcomes. It also sets out expectations relating to strategy and
         management (sections B1, B2 and B3). The commitments made in Northern’s ATP
         are consistent with the expectations set out in the ATP guidance.

 Disability awareness training
        Baseline training for existing staff in 2021

    2.2. Northern’s ATP, as approved by ORR on 25 February 2021, committed to deliver
         disability awareness training to existing passenger facing staff by 31 December
         2021, covering the mandatory training outcomes. This date was an extension to the
         original date of 31 July 2021 that is set out in our ATP guidance. This extension
         was to facilitate Northern introducing a three-hour briefing window for disability
         awareness training delivery.

    2.3. In 2022, through the ATP annual review process, Northern amended its ATP to
         remove the now historic reference to the 31 December 2021 commitment.

        Induction training for new staff

    2.4. Northern’s ATP maintains commitments that:

               •   “All new staff will receive disability awareness training as part of their
                   corporate induction” (Northern ATP, page 30).

               •   “The Office for Rail and Road (sic) have set out in their guidance nine
                   mandatory training outcomes… which our training includes” (Northern ATP,
                   page 30).

        Refresher training

    2.5. Northern’s ATP maintains a commitment that:

Page 8 of 30
                   Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



               •     “All Northern staff will receive refresher training within two years of the initial
                     training they have received, and as a minimum every two years thereafter;
                     in order to ensure the mandatory training outcomes are maintained”
                     (Northern ATP, page 32).

        Strategy and Management

    2.6. Northern’s ATP maintains a commitment that Northern will:

               •     “Embed the provision of services to disabled people within our business and
                     our project planning

               •     Will continue to improve access to the railways for disabled people and
                     those with reduced mobility

               •     Ensure our staff have the resources, skills and confidence to deliver
                     assistance to customers

               •     Measure the success of our Accessible Travel Policies” (Northern ATP,
                     pages 23-24).

    2.7. With respect to monitoring and evaluation, Northern’s ATP maintains a
         commitment that:

           •         “We will regularly review this policy and a report on findings will be sent to
                     the DfT and the ORR. This will include details of the achievements of
                     objectives, new initiatives to improve our service to disabled customers
                     and any difficulties we have encountered with the implementation of this
                     policy.” (Northern ATP, page 25).




Page 9 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




 3. Timeframe, scale and impact
    3.1. ORR published ATP guidance, setting out new requirements relating to disability
         awareness training in July 2019 and initiated engagement with operators on their
         ATP commitments and training plans. A timeline, noting key events and
         engagements with Northern since 2019, is set out in Annex B. Information gathered
         through these various engagements has provided the evidence base for this
         chapter.


 Timeframe and scale
    3.2. We sought to establish the timeframe over which passenger-facing staff have not
         received the disability awareness training that Northern commits to provide in its
         ATP and the scale of the issue.

   3.3. Northern provided some narrative alongside the data it submitted to ORR on 12
        August 2025, stating:

            •     “We have been delivering DA training on induction for station staff since late
                  2023. Before then the planned national stations reform work… was planned
                  to pick up the full training requirement for all station-based staff. The
                  cancellation of that work resulted in us moving to training new starters on
                  induction as for other grades, but we have a backlog of longer serving
                  station colleagues who don't currently have agreements in place for
                  biannual safety brief days like conductors, and who we don't therefore have
                  opportunities with off-roster time when we can deliver refresher training.”

            •     “100% of our Conductors are trained in line with the requirements as we
                  have delivered DA training at induction since 2017 and we also have their 6
                  monthly safety brief we refresh training each time.”

    3.4. This narrative suggests that the training gap lies with station staff, not conductors.
         Specifically, it suggests that induction training was not available for new station
         staff between 2021 and late 2023 and that longer serving station staff had
         potentially not been offered refresher training at all.

    3.5. In its response dated 19 September 2025 to ORR’s initial questions on the matter,
         Northern provided a brief timeline. The key points were:


Page 10 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



            •       “2021/22: DA training was integrated into Northern’s Annual Business Plan.
                    The plan would ensure all new station staff received DA training at induction,
                    as per the already established process for Conductors, and a dedicated
                    management training day was also to be delivered via Enhance the UK. A
                    refresher training plan for station colleagues was drafted but not
                    implemented.

            •       2022: The national Station Reform programme was launched…. This
                    would have ensured full coverage of training for Station colleagues and
                    would also have embedded future training requirements for refresher
                    training.

            •       Mid-2022: Due to the scale of reform, negotiations around eLearning and
                    training paused. The backlog of station colleagues without DA training was
                    acknowledged as a temporary issue, with resolution expected post-reform.

            •       Autumn 2023: The Station Reform programme was discontinued
                    nationally, removing the planned solution for DA training coverage.

            •       2023/24: Northern developed a new 5-module DA eLearning package in
                    collaboration with Enhance the UK for Station and Conductor colleagues to
                    facilitate the required refresher training. Modules 1–4 were immediately
                    adopted for Conductor refresher training as part of their biannual safety brief
                    days in 2023.”

    3.6. With respect to conductors, in its response of 17 December 2025 Northern
         additionally stated that:

                •   “Conductors at Northern are trained and assessed as competent on entry,
                    placed into an ongoing competency cycle designed to maintain that
                    competence, and supported by safety briefs that reinforce and enhance
                    existing capability for Disability Awareness training.”

    3.7. Northern’s timeline suggests that in the period 2021-2024 Northern developed
         training plans and materials for its staff and that, consistent with the information
         provided in August 2025, training was delivered to conductors, but that station staff
         did not receive refresher training (as above, induction training was available to
         station staff from late 2023). It appears that the issues Northern cites, relating to
         rostered time off for training, access to e-learning for station staff, and discontinued



Page 11 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



        plans for the Station Reform programme may apply to all station staff - and
        therefore most station staff appear not to have had access to disability
        awareness refresher training over the period 2021 to 2024.

    3.8. During 2025, as one of the actions in its improvement plan for increasing the
         reliability of assistance, Northern delivered a 2-hour training session to 99 staff
         across its ten largest stations. The session covered Handover Protocol (the
         process of staff communicating between boarding and aligning stations to ensure
         passenger assistance is delivered), assistance best practice and communication
         skills.

    3.9. On 12 August 2025 Northern reported that around 800 passenger facing staff had
         not received disability awareness training. This is around one third of all Northern
         permanent passenger-facing staff. On 4 November, Northern reported that it had
         completed delivery of its plan to address this training gap by providing training for
         station staff.

    3.10. When we asked Northern to provide further evidence of the timeframe over
          which staff had not received required training as part of the investigation across
          2021 to 2025 (see Annex C for the questions we asked), its response of 17
          December 2025 stated:

                •   “Northern has worked hard to understand the timeframe over which
                    required staff did not receive Disability Awareness training following the
                    move into public ownership. Regretfully, Northern do not hold complete
                    records to establish the station staff who would require the training nor that
                    this training has been completed. Whilst Northern are confident that
                    previous figures shared with ORR are broadly correct, further work needs
                    to be undertaken to ensure that Northern can be confident about the
                    records it holds moving forward. It is for this reason that we are unable to
                    share any evidence to support the additional questions provided for 1.1-
                    1.11.” (ORR’s question references)

    3.11. Northern was therefore unable to confirm if or when its station staff had
          completed disability awareness training either initially by the 31 December 2021
          deadline, as part of induction for new starters or as part of any 2-year refresher
          training cycle.

    3.12. With regard to the disability awareness training delivered in October 2025, in its
          response on 4 February 2026 to our Case to Answer letter, Northern confirmed
          that all relevant station staff completed the training, covering mandatory
          outcomes 1-8 and 9c, and records of this are held within its learning
Page 12 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report


          management system.

    3.13. A gap remains for some staff with respect to one of the mandatory training
          outcomes (outcome 9), which Northern states is its priority focus and aims to
          resolve by July 2026.

 Findings
    3.14. Northern has been developing disability awareness training plans and materials
          for its staff since 2021, when its ATP was established. Northern has stated that
          both induction and refresher training have been delivered to conductors.
          However, induction training for new station staff has only been provided since
          late 2023 and the evidence indicates that most station staff appear not to have had
          access to disability awareness refresher training until 2025.

    3.15. Staff at Northern’s ten busiest stations received training that addressed some of
          the mandatory training outcomes in 2025, as part of Northern’s passenger
          assistance improvement plan, and disability awareness refresher training was
          delivered to station staff across Northern’s network in October 2025. A gap
          remains for some staff with respect to one of the mandatory training outcomes
          (outcome 9), which Northern aims to resolve by July 2026.

 Impact on disabled passengers
    3.16. We sought to establish the impact of the training gap on disabled passengers.

    3.17. The purpose of staff training is to ensure that disabled passengers receive a
          good service from all staff. The mandatory training outcomes were arrived at
          following extensive consultation with disabled passengers, disability
          campaigners, disability organisations, and the rail industry, and are specifically
          targeted to support a good quality service for all disabled passengers. They are
          designed to address the consistent feedback that staff should understand the
          complexity of disabilities and appreciate the challenges each person faces.

    3.18. Where disability awareness training is delivered well, and staff can assist
          disabled passengers with confidence, it should result in a more reliable service
          and more positive experiences. Where staff are not well trained and do not
          understand the challenges some passengers face or their responsibilities as
          staff, it opens up risks of negative experiences for disabled passengers.

    3.19. In its 17 December 2025 submission, Northern stated that it:

Page 13 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



                 •   “understands the potential impact on some disabled customers who may
                     not have received the standard of support they rightly expect.”


    3.20. ORR has been engaging with Northern since July 2024 regarding its
          passenger assistance reliability, which has been historically poor. In its 17
          December 2025 submission, Northern reported on the positive impact of training it
          delivered in October 2025 on assistance reliability, supported by insights from
          Northern’s accessibility mystery shopping programme, post and during travel and
          customer experience centre survey.

    3.21. We note that Northern also took a wide range of actions under its 2024
          improvement plan on assistance reliability that were designed to deliver
          improvements in the same areas.

    3.22. In the 17 December 2025 submission, Northern also highlighted data relating to
          other aspects of the passenger experience:

                 •   “To help assess potential impact, we have reviewed customer experience
                     indicators during the relevant timeframe. Our overall Customer
                     Satisfaction (CSAT) scores for customers who have indicated they have a
                     disability consistently perform higher than overall CSAT for all customers.
                     In the ORR benchmarking report between 2022 to 2025 Northern
                     received an average of 93% satisfaction with assistance received at the
                     station and with staff knowledge and proficiency at the station. Northern
                     complaint volumes relating to accessibility have continued to be low at an
                     average 0.7 per 100k journeys.”



 Findings
    3.23. Disability awareness training is intended to equip staff with the tools to better
          understand the needs of disabled passengers and how these can best be met
          to support their journeys on the rail network. Northern has acknowledged the
          impact on disabled passengers caused by the gap in training provision.




Page 14 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




 4. Underlying causes
 Northern’s internal audit findings
    4.1. Our investigation sought to explore the circumstances that led to staff not receiving
         training when required and how the issue remained unresolved and unreported
         during this timeframe.

    4.2. Northern did not make ORR aware of gaps in provision of disability awareness
         training until it reported data under new reporting requirements in August 2025 (see
         timeline of engagement in annex B).

    4.3. Prompted by our investigation initiation letter of December 2025, Northern
         commissioned an urgent high level internal audit to investigate why the training
         issue went unresolved and unreported.

    4.4. In its submission of 17 December 2025, Northern reported that the audit identified
         the following key issues with Northern’s control framework for Disability Awareness
         training for passenger-facing colleagues:

                •   “Undefined Roles and Responsibilities: No documented accountability
                    for training delivery or compliance monitoring. A RACI has now
                    been established and approved by Northern’s Director Group.

                •   Data Fragmentation: Absence of a single source of truth, making
                    compliance tracking difficult.

                •   Lack of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP): No formal process in
                    place for managing this training”.

    4.5. RACI is an acronym for a project management tool that describes who is
         Responsible, Accountable, Consulted and Informed.

    4.6. We note that Northern, in evidence cited earlier, has also pointed to issues around
         rostered time off for training and access to e-learning as key issues for station staff.

    4.7. As a result of the audit, Northern also stated that “Northern is unable to provide
         assurance at this stage over its records” and, for that reason, did not provide
         responses to many of the questions that we posed to them (see Annex C).
Page 15 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



    4.8. The audit made a number of recommendations which Northern has committed to
         take forward (see chapter 5).

 Findings
    4.9. Northern did not make ORR aware of gaps in provision of disability awareness
         training until it reported data under new reporting requirements in August 2025.

    4.10. Northern’s own internal audit identified a number of systemic issues relating to
          governance processes, monitoring and controls as key issues that led to the
          failure to deliver training to staff.




Page 16 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




 5. Assurance and improvements
    5.1. Our investigation has examined how Northern can assure itself, its passengers and
         ORR that:

                 •   The recent training has been effective and is enabling staff to meet
                     the required training outcomes; and

                 •   A similar situation will not arise in future.

 Recent training
    5.2. On 15 October 2025 Northern provided a detailed training plan to address the gap
         in disability awareness training for station staff. It set a target to deliver outstanding
         training by 31 October 2025 using 20 Passenger Assist Champions and Team
         Leaders to deliver training face-to-face at stations.

    5.3. On 4 November 2025 Northern submitted a final report confirming that delivery of
         the plan had been completed on 31 October 2025.

    5.4. The chart below is an extract from the final weekly progress report submitted by
         Northern on 4 November 2025 and shows the trajectory for Northern training the
         staff it identified as having insufficient training records and therefore needing
         training.




Page 17 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




    5.5. Northern reported that written records of attendees were kept at the station to be
         manually entered into Northern’s Learning Management System (LMS) at a later
         stage.

    5.6. In its response on 4 February 2026 to our Case to Answer letter, Northern
         confirmed that records had been entered into its LMS. It also provided an update
         on training for the 34 station staff who were on long term absence in October
         2025. As of 3 February 2026, nine have returned to the business and were
         awaiting Disability Awareness training, while the rest have either received it, have
         left the business or are still absent.

 Will a similar situation arise in future?
    5.7. Northern’s own internal audit identified a number of systemic issues relating to
         governance processes, monitoring and controls as key issues that led to the failure
         to deliver training to staff. The audit made a number of recommendations which
         Northern has committed to take forward. In its submission of 17 December 2025,
         Northern stated:

                 •       “Northern will take steps to strengthen governance and compliance
                         around disability awareness training. To sustain this, we recognise that
                         we need to improve our systematic monitoring and management of
                         accessibility risks, with appropriate governance for decision-making and
                         escalation thresholds. We have conducted an immediate audit, and we
                         recognise there are improvements needed in the supporting documents
                         and procedures and to ensure that there is a robust structure in place.”

    5.8. In an appendix to its submission on 17 December 2025, Northern set out plans for
         Disability Awareness: Approach to Improvement, that set out the details of the
         actions that it would take, and the timescales. The plan identified four priority
         areas, with specific actions associated with each, to be delivered largely by end
         March 2026:

                     •    review governance controls and reporting

                     •    define role-based training requirements

                     •    address retrospective gaps



Page 18 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report


                  •   update induction, onboarding and refresher training


    5.9. We have assessed the plan and consider it to be comprehensive and well-
         targeted at tackling systemic issues relating to governance, oversight and delivery
         of disability awareness training. The actions set out, once delivered, should offer
         confidence that Northern will be able to meet, and demonstrate that it is meeting
         the commitments set out in its ATP relating to delivery of disability awareness
         training for staff and provision of the management and oversight arrangements to
         support and assure delivery of that training.

    5.10. Of the 23 actions in the plan, eight were to be delivered by end January and
          were confirmed as complete by Northern in their response to our Case to
          Answer letter of 4 February 2026.


 Findings
    5.11. The training undertaken by Northern in October 2025 went a significant way
          towards closing the training gap for station staff. However, until systemic issues
          are addressed there is a risk that similar issues with disability awareness training
          could re-occur.
    5.12. Northern has set out actions that it plans to take aimed at resolving the systemic
          issues. These are tailored to address the issues identified in Northern’s internal
          audit with some actions already complete and most to be completed by end March
          2026.




Page 19 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




 6. Annexes
 Annex A: Terms of reference of investigation
 Annex B: Chronology of events
 Annex C: Follow up questions issued as part of
 investigation
 Annex D: Supporting data




Page 20 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



 Annex A: Terms of reference of investigation
 Investigation initiation letter from ORR to Northern dated 4 December
 2025
 ORR investigation of Northern Trains Limited’s Compliance with Condition 5
 (Accessible Travel Policy) of your Station Licence and GB Statement of National
 Regulatory Provisions: Passenger

 I am writing to inform you we are opening a formal investigation into whether Northern
 contravened, or is contravening, Condition 5 of its Station Licence and GB Statement of
 National Regulatory Provisions (SNRP): Passenger. We are inviting you to share further
 information with us by close of business on Wednesday 17 December 2025.

 Background

 Condition 5 of the Station Licence and GB SNRP: Passenger requires the holder to
 establish and comply with an Accessible Travel Policy (ATP).

 ORR approved Northern’s ATP on 25 February 2021. Northern committed to deliver
 disability awareness training covering the mandatory training outcomes to existing
 passenger facing staff by 31 December 2021; induction training for new staff thereafter;
 and refresher training every two years. In 2022, through the ATP annual review process,
 Northern amended its ATP to remove the now historic reference to the 31 December
 2021 commitment. Whilst the ATP has been updated since 2021 as part of an annual
 review process, commitments regarding the ongoing training of new and existing staff
 have remained.

 On 12 August 2025, in response to ORR’s new approach to monitoring training delivery,
 Northern reported that around 800 staff members, consisting of station-based staff and
 revenue protection officers, had not completed disability awareness training. On 3
 October 2025, I wrote to you setting out my concerns about the impact this lack of
 training may have had on the experiences of your passengers, and also that Northern
 had not made us aware of this compliance issue before.

 Upon our request Northern provided a plan on 15 October 2025 setting out how it would
 ensure that affected staff were able to meet the training requirements set out in the ATP
 guidance. Northern’s plan was ambitious and aimed to deliver training to all staff who
 required it over a 4-week period and be completed by 31 October 2025. On 4 November
 2025, Northern reported that it had fulfilled the plan and all training had been delivered.

 Given the concerns already raised with Northern, the scope of the investigation will
 include the following:

 • The timeframe over which staff who had not received required training were
 interacting with disabled passengers, and the scale and impact of the issue;

Page 21 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



 • The circumstances that led to staff not receiving training when required and how
 the issue remained unresolved and unreported during this timeframe;

 • How Northern can assure itself, its passengers and ORR that i) the recent training
 has been effective and is enabling staff to meet the required training outcomes
 and ii) a similar situation will not arise in future.

 Delivering the investigation

 Jacqui Russell, Head of Consumer, will lead this investigation and Stewart Hill will
 support Jacqui as lead contact. We will carry out our investigation in accordance with
 our economic enforcement policy processes.

 We will review the information we already hold on this matter and would welcome any
 additional information Northern would like us to consider, which could be shared with
 us in writing or through discussion of the issues, by close of business on Wednesday 17
 December 2025.

 We may also provide you with further specific clarification questions and/or requests for
 information or require additional engagement. Should we choose to do so, we will write
 to you under separate cover.

 Given the engagement between us already undertaken on this issue, we aim to
 conclude our investigation as soon as possible. We will write to Northern again to
 advise of our findings and any relevant next steps in our process.

 Our economic enforcement policy also encourages licence holders to offer reparations
 to be considered as part of our enforcement process, if a licence holder is willing to
 acknowledge its failings. Where reparations are to be offered, we prefer licence holders
 and relevant operators to offer reparations as early as possible.

 To the extent you may be considering carrying out an internal review covering this
 matter, we would expect you to conduct the same with an eye to reducing unnecessary
 burden on yourselves, but without limiting in any way your response and provision of
 information to our investigation.

 The outcomes of this formal investigation could ultimately result in a finding of breach
 of Northern’s Station Licence and GB SNRP: Passenger, and if appropriate, formal
 action.

 Please be aware that we may use any information you provide, including information
 provided to date, to inform the discharge of our regulatory functions. We will publish
 our findings.

 If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Stewart Hill (…). A copy of
 this letter will be published on our website in due course.

Page 22 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report




 Annex B: Chronology of events
 Table B.1 - Chronology of events / actions 2019-2026

  Date                      Commentary on event / actions

  July 2019                 ORR announced new disability awareness training
                            requirements and shared guidance for operators via an
                            industry letter to all Train Operating Companies (TOC)
                            managing directors. TOCs were asked to submit a plan
                            alongside revised ATPs setting out how the new disability
                            awareness training requirements would be met. TOCs were
                            also asked to provide a report by July 2020 outlining progress
                            towards meeting the new training requirements. Operators
                            are required to provide training for existing staff by 31 July
                            2021, and then induction training for passenger-facing staff,
                            with refresher training for all every two years.

  2019 and 2020             Northern engaged positively and committed to meet the training
                            requirements across several communications. As Northern
                            began to share plans with ORR, concerns arose about its ability
                            to meet the deadline of 31 July 2021 while delivering the
                            required quality. These concerns were shared with Northern
                            which committed to take steps to address them.

  1 March 2020              The franchise became directly operated by DfT OLR Holdings.
                            Northern Trains Limited trading as ‘Northern’ is owned by the
                            DfT Operator for the Department for Transport (DfT).

  25 February 2021          ORR approved Northern’s ATP on condition of further training
                            material being shared, which was sent by Northern on 4 June
                            2021. At this stage Northern committed in its ATP to deliver the
                            training by the deadline of 31 July 2021.

  July 2021                 Northern requested an extension to 31 December 2021 to
                            deliver the training. Northern stated it needed the extension to
                            implement a 3-hour briefing to deliver face-to-face training in
                            addition to e-learning. ORR granted an extension on this
                            basis.

Page 23 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report

  During 2022 and           Little correspondence specifically on disability awareness
  2023                      training between ORR and Northern. However, during the
                            engagement in 2025, Northern suggested issues with
                            delivering disability awareness training to station staff were
                            known about in mid-2022 (see section 3.5).

  30 January 2023           As part of the annual ATP review cycle, Northern sent a letter to
                            ORR outlining steps to show how it enhanced its disability
                            awareness refresher training. As part of the review, Northern
                            raised no concerns about delivery of disability awareness training
                            to its staff.

  2024                      There was no correspondence specifically about disability
                            awareness training between ORR and Northern. However, on
                            19 September 2024, ORR requested an improvement plan
                            from Northern regarding its passenger assistance delivery due
                            to sustained poor performance in ORR’s Passenger Assist
                            satisfaction survey. ORR letter to Northern Trains dated 19
                            September 2024

  4 December 2024           Northern’s passenger assistance improvement plan was
                            accepted by ORR on 4 December 2024. The plan included
                            updated disability awareness training for conductors, and
                            refresher training for staff at the ten busiest stations.

  1 April 2025              ORR introduced a new approach to monitoring compliance
                            with disability awareness training requirements, with quarterly
                            data reporting by all operators.

  10 July 2025              Northern requested a meeting with ORR to discuss the new
                            reporting requirements on training. The aim of the call was to
                            understand what data was required.

  12 August 2025            Northern’s first submission for ORR’s new monitoring data
                            request showed that around 800 Northern passenger facing staff,
                            consisting of station-based staff and revenue protection officers,
                            had not received disability awareness training.

  4 September 2025          Via email ORR requested an explanation of how the situation
                            arose and Northern’s plan to rectify it.

Page 24 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report

  19 September 2025         Northern submitted a training recovery plan via email to ORR.


  3 October 2025            ORR sent a letter to Northern rejecting the initial plan and
                            requesting an updated one. ORR letter to Northern Trains
                            dated 3 October 2025

  15 October 2025           Northern submitted a plan to deliver disability awareness training
                            to the staff it identified as having insufficient training records. The
                            training was planned to be delivered over a 4-week period and by
                            31 October 2025. ORR staff attended and observed three of the
                            Northern training sessions during this period.

  4 November 2025           Northern confirmed to ORR that the disability awareness
                            training plan has been delivered.

  4 December 2025           ORR opened a formal licence investigation relating to Northern’s
                            disability awareness training obligations.

  17 December 2025          Northern provided a response to ORR questions issued as part of
                            the investigation, acknowledging the issues and setting out a plan
                            to address them.

  23 January 2026           ORR sent Northern a Case to Answer letter, outlining the
                            findings from our review of the available evidence inviting
                            Northern to provide any further information it felt was relevant.

  4 February 2026           Northern responded to the Case to Answer letter, providing
                            more details around records of the staff trained in October
                            2025 and an update on progress against actions in the plan it
                            had provided in December.




Page 25 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



 Annex C: Follow up questions issued as part of
 investigation
 We wrote to Northern on 9 December 2025 to ask follow-up questions as part of the
 investigation. The content of that email is included below:

 These questions identify information and evidence that we consider are relevant to ORR’s
 investigation into provision of disability awareness training, as outlined in the investigation
 initiation letter of 4 December. We would ask that Northern provide its response to the
 questions below by Wednesday 17 December 2025. Northern may also choose to provide
 us with any other information it considers relevant.

 1. The timeframe over which staff who had not received required training were
 interacting with disabled passengers, and the scale and impact of the issue.

 Initial training mandate

  1.1. How many passenger-facing staff were eligible for disability awareness training as of
 31 December 2021, and what were their roles?

 1.2. How many of these staff received disability awareness training by 31 December
 2021? Please specify their roles.

 1.3. Northern stated in its response of 19 September 2025 to ORR’s initial request for a
 disability awareness training recovery plan that, in mid-2022, ‘The backlog of station
 colleagues without DA training was acknowledged as a temporary issue, with resolution
 expected post-reform’. How many station staff were in this backlog?

 1.4. As of 15 August 2025, when Northern submitted its core data return to ORR, how
 many station staff and conductors did Northern employ?

 Induction training for new staff

 1.5. When did disability awareness training as part of new starter induction start to be
 delivered?

 1.6. How many passenger-facing staff who were eligible for disability awareness training
 joined Northern between 1 January 2022 and 4 December 2025? Please break this down
 by year and role.

 1.7. How many of these staff received disability awareness induction training. Please
Page 26 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report

 break this down by year and role.

 Refresher training

 1.8. When did delivery of disability awareness refresher training begin?

 1.9. How many staff were eligible for disability awareness refresher training in the period
 between 31 December 2021 and 4 December 2025? Please break this down by year and
 role.

 1.10. Please also confirm how many passenger-facing staff were employed by Northern as
 of August 15 2025, broken down by role.

 1.11. How many of these eligible staff received disability awareness refresher training
 between 31 December 2021 and 4 December 2025? Please break this down by year and
 role.

 2. The circumstances that led to staff not receiving training when required and how
 the issue remained unresolved and unreported during this timeframe.

 2.1. If the response to 1.2 above indicates that not all eligible staff received disability
 awareness training by 31 December 2021, please provide the reasons for this together
 with an explanation of whether, and how, the issues were resolved.

 2.2. In respect of the backlog identified in 2022, please describe how you became aware
 of this issue. Please also provide the reasons for this backlog together with an explanation
 of whether, and how, the issues were resolved.

 2.3. If the response to 1.7 above indicates that not all eligible staff received disability
 awareness induction training, please provide the reasons for this together with an
 explanation of whether, and how, the issues were resolved.

 2.4. If the response to 1.11 above indicates that not all eligible staff received disability
 awareness refresher training, please provide the reasons for this together with an
 explanation of whether, and how, the issues were resolved.

 3. How Northern can assure itself, its passengers and ORR that:

  i) the recent training has been effective and is enabling staff to meet the required
 training outcomes



Page 27 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



 3.1. How did Northern identify the staff that were reported in the Core data return of 15
 August 2025 to require disability awareness training?


  3.2. In discussions between Northern and ORR, Northern has described the approach to
delivering the disability awareness training during October 2025 as 'train the trainer'.
Please outline the process that was followed to prepare colleagues for delivering the
training.


 3.3. How did Northern assure itself that the disability awareness training delivered during
 October 2025 had been delivered effectively, covering the required training outcomes?

 ii) a similar situation will not arise in future

 3.4. Northern described reasons why training has not been delivered in its response of 19
 September 2025 to ORR’s initial request for a disability awareness training recovery plan.
 What steps have been taken, or are planned, to mitigate what Northern has described as
 ‘training access barriers’? Please provide the dates for when those steps were taken or
 are planned to be taken.

 3.5. What steps have been taken, or are planned, to monitor and record the delivery of
 disability awareness training? Please provide the dates for when those steps were taken
 or are planned to be taken, together with any documentary evidence.

 3.6. What steps have been taken, or are planned, to assure the quality of disability
 awareness training for passenger-facing staff? Please provide the dates for when those
 steps were taken or are planned to be taken, together with any documentary evidence.




Page 28 of 30
                Office of Rail and Road | Northern Trains – Investigation report



 Annex D: Supporting data
 ORR’s Experiences of Passenger Assist survey 2021-2025

 Table 1: Proportion of passengers who reported they received none of the assistance
 booked

  Year               Northern Trains              Other Operators
  2021–2022          24%                          11%
  2022–2023          13%                          8%
  2023–2024          18%                          12%
  2024–2025          19%                          11%


 Table 2: Overall Satisfaction of passengers with assistance at the station

  Year               Northern Trains              Other Operators
  2021–2022          91%                          94%
  2022–2023          94%                          95%
  2023–2024          97%                          94%
  2024–2025          94%                          94%


 Table 5: Satisfaction of passenger with staff knowledge and proficiency

  Year               Northern Trains              Other Operators
  2021–2022          95%                          95%
  2022–2023          94%                          94%
  2023–2024          96%                          94%
  2024–2025          94%                          94%


 Full reports available: ORR research into accessibility | Office of Rail and Road




Page 29 of 30
© Crown copyright 2026
This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise
stated. To view this licence, visit
Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the
copyright holders concerned.
This publication is available at orr.gov.uk
Any enquiries regarding this publication should be sent to us at orr.gov.uk/contact-us
