AAIB Bulletin:                               G-BODT                                   AAIB-31324


Accident

Aircraft Type and Registration:               Jodel D18, G-BODT

No & Type of Engines:                         1 Rotax 912-UL piston engine

Year of Manufacture:                          1988 (Serial no: PFA 169-11290)

Date & Time (UTC):                            27 October 2025 at 1350 hrs

Location:                                     Portmoak Airfield, Kinross

Type of Flight:                               Private

Persons on Board:                             Crew - 1                Passengers - None

Injuries:                                     Crew - 1 (Fatal)        Passengers - N/A

Nature of Damage:                             Aircraft destroyed

Commander’s Licence:                          Private Pilot’s Licence

Commander’s Age:                              81 years

Commander’s Flying Experience:                Approximately 700 hours (of which around 250
                                              were on type)
                                              Last 90 days - Unknown
                                              Last 28 days - Unknown

Information Source:                           AAIB Field Investigation


Synopsis

During the takeoff ground roll from Portmoak Airfield, the aircraft yawed sharply to the
right. After becoming airborne, while still yawed, it then rolled to the right and entered a
descending turn. Approximately six seconds after takeoff the aircraft struck the ground
in a field to the north of the runway. The aircraft was destroyed and the pilot was fatally
injured. No mechanical or technical defects were identified which would have prevented
normal control of the aircraft. It is possible that the pilot suffered either a partial or complete
incapacitation during the takeoff roll.

History of the flight

On the day of the accident, the pilot drove to the airfield with the intention of conducting a
short, local area flight. He prepared the aircraft and taxied from the hangar to the takeoff
end of the runway. He made a brief radio call to announce that he was going to take off from
Runway 28R which was heard by several glider pilots who were operating on the southern
area of the airfield.

A CCTV camera mounted to a local building overlooking the airfield captured the takeoff
and subsequent accident. The camera is approximately 250 m from the accident site, and
it was not possible to observe details of G-BODT such as control positions although the
general attitude and direction of the aircraft was clear. The footage shows the aircraft pause
at the beginning of the runway for a few minutes, presumably to perform pre-takeoff power


© Crown copyright 2026                          1                                       All times are UTC

AAIB Bulletin:                                   G-BODT                              AAIB-31324


checks before lining up on the runway. It then commenced its takeoff roll. The tailwheel lifts
off from the ground and a few seconds later appears to make contact with the ground again.
During the final section of the ground roll, the aircraft deviated sharply to the right. Despite
the deviation, the aircraft continued to accelerate and became airborne. Immediately after
lifting off, the aircraft continued to yaw to the right and did not realign with the original
takeoff heading. Within seconds the aircraft began to roll to the right while climbing only
slightly. The rate of roll then increased rapidly, and the aircraft descended in a tightening
right turn. Approximately six seconds after leaving the ground the right wingtip struck the
ground followed by the nose of the aircraft. Figure 1 shows a composite photo taken from
the CCTV footage.




                                                 Figure 1
                         Composite CCTV image G-BODT, arrow shows flight direction


Witnesses reported that engine power sounded normal and continuous throughout the
takeoff.

Accident site

The aircraft came to rest in a field adjacent and to the north of Runway 28R, approximately
95 m from the edge of the grass runway. Ground marks showed the right wingtip struck the
ground first, followed by the propeller and then the canopy. Clear propeller strikes in the
ground and the location of a propeller blade tip 65 m from the strikes suggested propeller
rotation at the time of impact and that the engine was producing high power. The aircraft
travelled a further 30 m before coming to rest. Separation of the fuselage from both the
wing structure and the engine indicated a dynamic impact sequence that included inversion.




© Crown copyright 2026                              2                                 All times are UTC

AAIB Bulletin:                               G-BODT                                    AAIB-31324


Aircraft information

The Jodel D18 is a low-wing two seat aircraft fitted with a tailwheel. It is a plans-built aircraft,
of wood construction with fabric covering. The aircraft was built in 1988, had accrued
1,888 flying hours, and had a valid Permit to Fly.

G-BODT was equipped with a Rotax 912-UL engine and three-bladed Ivoprop in-flight
electrically adjustable pitch propeller. Pitch adjustment is made using a sprung toggle
switch on the instrument panel, requiring constant pressure to hold the switch in the
fine or coarse positions to adjust the propeller pitch. The switch self-centres after releasing
pressure, and the propeller remains in the selected pitch. The propeller rotates clockwise,
as viewed from the rear.

Aircraft examination

Engine and propeller

The engine and engine controls were severely damaged during the accident sequence,
although some inspection was possible. The throttle control was found fully open, and the
friction adjustment was at a tight setting. There was control continuity between the throttle
and mixture controls to both carburettors. Oil and coolant were both present and the spark
plugs were in good condition. The fuel tank was damaged but intact and contained just over
30 litres of Mogas.

The propeller sustained substantial damage. The composite outer surfaces of all three
blades had detached from the hub as well as from their adjustable pitch rods, which were
deformed. The pitch adjustment switch had self-centred.

Airframe

The airframe was significantly disrupted, having come to rest with the wing structure
detached from the fuselage. The outer section of the right wing had separated from the
rest of the wing structure, which was largely undamaged. The tailplane and rudder were
attached to the fuselage and remained intact. The engine, engine mounting structure and
cockpit instrument panel were no longer attached to the fuselage and had turned through
90°. The canopy transparency and frame had been destroyed, and all parts were found at
