AAIB Bulletin:                            9H-LWB                                 AAIB-29976


Serious Incident

Aircraft Type and Registration:            De Havilland Aircraft of Canada Limited DHC-8,
                                           9H-LWB

No & Type of Engines:                      2 Pratt & Whitney Canada PW150A turboprop
                                           engines

Year of Manufacture:                       2010 (Serial no: 4332)

Date & Time (UTC):                         23 April 2024 at 1740 hrs

Location:                                  Runway 27, Guernsey Airport

Type of Flight:                            Commercial Air transport (Passenger)

Persons on Board:                          Crew - 5              Passengers - 63

Injuries:                                  Crew - None           Passengers - None

Nature of Damage:                          None

Commander’s Licence:                       Airline Transport Pilot’s Licence

Commander’s Age:                           56 years

Commander’s Flying Experience:             8,472 hours (of which 241 were on type)
                                           Last 90 days - 110 hours
                                           Last 28 days - 45 hours

Information Source:                        AAIB Field Investigation


Synopsis

On a flight returning to Guernsey from London Gatwick the Commander tried to execute a
gentle touchdown, the aircraft floated and touched down about two-thirds down the runway
length, it then overran the end of the runway at slow speed. There were no injuries to the
passengers or crew and the aircraft was undamaged. The flight was being operated under
a Wet Lease agreement and following the Serious Incident both the Lessee and the Lessor
made changes to their safety management systems. Two safety actions were implemented
after the event; one to enhance the Lessee’s initial understanding of how flights under Wet
Lease contracts were being operated, and the other was the implementation by the Channel
Islands Director of Civil Aviation of an Augmented Review of Foreign Carrier Permit (FCP)
Applications for Wet Lease operations in the Channel Islands. One Safety Recommendation
resulted from the investigation regarding the location of emergency checklists in the DHC-8
Quick Reference Handbook.

History of the flight

The crew reported for duty at 1050 hrs UTC at Guernsey Airport to operate four sectors.
They worked for a foreign charter airline which was flying under contract to a local airline.
The crew comprised a commander, who was undertaking line training of the co-pilot, a
first officer who had only recently joined the company. A further first officer occupied the
jump seat acting as a safety pilot. In the cabin were the cabin manager and another member


© Crown copyright 2026                       1                                     All times are UTC

AAIB Bulletin:                              9H-LWB                                    AAIB-29976


of cabin crew. A representative of the contracting operator was also onboard but was flying
as a passenger, rather than as part of the crew.

The first two sectors were to East Midlands Airport and return. The co-pilot was the handling
pilot on the outbound flight with the commander flying the return leg. The commander
reported that this was due to the short runway at Guernsey. Both flights went without
incident.

The aircraft then operated to Gatwick, with the co-pilot acting as handling pilot. After an
uneventful flight, the aircraft took off for the return flight to Guernsey at 1709 hrs UTC. Again,
the commander flew the return leg due, he stated, to the short runway at Guernsey. After
a short cruise at FL180 the aircraft commenced a descent for an approach to Runway 27
at Guernsey. After handover to Guernsey Approach ATC, the crew requested an extended
route in order to lose sufficient height for the approach. In response, ATC gave the crew
extended radar vectors before then clearing them for an ILS approach to Runway 27.

The crew configured the aircraft for landing with Flaps 35 and a VREF of 118 kt. The
commander reported he flew the approach at about 124 kt to take account of the small
headwind and any inaccuracies in manually setting the power. He stated the aircraft was
stable when it descended through 1,000 ft AAL, in accordance with the operator’s standard
operating procedures. At about 250 ft radio altitude, with the runway clearly in sight, the
commander disconnected the autopilot to manually fly the rest of the approach and landing.

The commander stated he would normally aim to touchdown on Runway 27 at the touchdown
markers abeam Taxiway B (Figure 1). He stated that on this occasion he flew across the
runway threshold at about 50 ft, as intended, and then flared the aircraft to try and achieve
gentle touchdown. This resulted in the aircraft floating down the runway for an extended
period, compounded by the runway gently sloping away from the aircraft. The commander
stated that a combination of the aircraft pitch and runway slope meant he was unaware
of how far down the runway the aircraft had travelled. Both the co-pilot and safety pilot
reported they had also not realised how far the aircraft had travelled and did not consider
they needed to warn the commander or call for a go-around. When the aircraft did finally
touch down, it was about two-thirds of the way down the runway.

On touchdown the commander stated he applied ‘normal’ braking, being confident this
would be sufficient. He did not routinely use reverse pitch unless he thought it necessary
and did not do so for this landing. On passing the turnoff for Taxiway C, however, he
realised the end of the runway was fast approaching and, although the aircraft was slowing,
he judged it would not stop before the runway end. The commander stated he therefore
applied ‘full’ brakes, but still without applying reverse pitch on the propellers as he still
thought this unnecessary to stop the aircraft in time. He could hear the anti-skid working
and the aircraft started to deviate to the right. He reported he used the steering tiller to steer
the aircraft back towards the centreline and the aircraft then departed the end of the runway
at low speed. The aircraft continued to the left and came to a halt about 30 m beyond the
end of the runway.



© Crown copyright 2026                          2                                      All times are UTC

AAIB Bulletin:                            9H-LWB                                 AAIB-29976


The commander kept the engines running and about 10 seconds later applied some power
to attempt to taxi back to the runway. The aircraft however did not move, and ATC instructed
the crew to remain in position. The airport fire services then arrived and contacted the crew
using a discrete frequency. The commander was advised there were no signs of fire and
was asked if he was able to taxi back to the runway. Despite the previous unsuccessful
attempt to taxi off the grass, the commander asked ATC whether he would be able to move
and was told to wait while enquiries were made. ATC then came back instructing the
commander he should shut down the engines. In response, the commander shutdown the
engines by selecting the propeller condition levers to the fuel shutoff position, but without
further reference to either the normal or emergency shutdown checklists. The aircraft had
by then been off the runway for just over six minutes.

As the aircraft’s APU was unserviceable the aircraft was left on battery power only. A bus
was then arranged to collect the passengers, but the only airport bus was unserviceable
and a replacement had to be found in the local town. This arrived about 45 minutes later
to transport the passengers back to the terminal. The aircraft was then towed to the apron.

There were no injuries among either the passengers or crew.




