AAIB Bulletin:                             ZS-YAD                                 AAIB-29325


Incident

Aircraft Type and Registration:            Embraer 190AR, ZS-YAD

No & Type of Engines:                      2 General Electric CF34-10E6 turbofan engines

Year of Manufacture:                       2017 (Serial no: 746)

Date & Time (UTC):                         17 June 2023 at 1235 hrs

Location:                                  St Helena Airport

Type of Flight:                            Commercial Air Transport (Passenger)

Persons on Board:                          Crew - 5                Passengers - 28

Injuries:                                  Crew - None             Passengers - None

Nature of Damage:                          None

Commander’s Licence:                       Airline Transport Pilot’s Licence

Commander’s Age:                           Not provided

Commander’s Flying Experience:             Not provided

Information Source:                        AAIB Field Investigation


Synopsis

The Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) was informed of concerns about a scheduled
flight to St Helena on 17 June 2023 which encountered wind conditions necessitating
two go-arounds, with the flight landing on the third attempt. During enquiries into the event,
a further report was received from a different source regarding another scheduled flight
on 10 September, during which four go-arounds were made before a landing could be
achieved. The AAIB, as the nominated State Accident Investigation Authority for the British
Overseas Territories of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, reviewed the events,
but did not consider they met the ICAO definition of a serious incident. However, the AAIB
considered that the immediate issues identified warranted further investigation under the
St Helena Civil Aviation (Investigation of Air Accidents and Incidents) Regulations 2019, to
identify any potential safety improvements.

The subsequent investigation confirmed the challenging nature of operations to the airport
due to its isolated location and wind effects acting on the final approach and runway. It
also identified issues with the aircraft operation, airport and diversion alternate which it
considered needed to be addressed. Safety Actions included the installation of runway
distance marker boards and the imposition of additional wind limits by the operator.

Six safety recommendations are made to address intended improvements which have
yet to be implemented and some improvements where agreement could not be reached.
In particular, the matter of allowing relevant flights to nominate Wideawake Airfield on
Ascension Island as a diversion, in accordance with the Wideawake Agreement of 2023,
remained unresolved.


© Crown copyright 2026                        1                                      All times are UTC

AAIB Bulletin:                                  ZS-YAD                              AAIB-29325


Background

The AAIB was informed of concerns regarding a commercial flight to St Helena on
17 June 2023. These centred on the weather conditions at the time, which resulted in
significant turbulence on the approach and the aircraft having to go-around twice late in
the approach whilst it was over the runway. The reporter considered the isolated nature of
the airport may have put undue pressure on the crew to land in the prevailing conditions,
because of the lack of a suitable alternate. A further report was received by the AAIB from
a different source regarding another commercial flight on 10 September 2023. This flight
had departed from Ascension Island and was due to fly to St Helena before then continuing
on to Johannesburg. It had to go-around four times due to turbulence before it could land at
St Helena. It’s onward flight to Johannesburg then had to be delayed until 12 September,
due to continuing poor weather.

St Helena

St Helena is a small island of 47 square miles situated in the South Atlantic, with a population
of about 4,400 people. It is part of the British Overseas Territory of St Helena, Ascension,
and Tristan da Cunha. The St Helena Government website describes it as ‘one of the
remotest islands on Earth… 1,200 miles from Africa and 1,800 miles from South America.’
It further states that ‘the only other near landmass is Ascension Island, which is 807 miles
to the northwest.’

St Helena Airport

Historically, St Helena was only accessible by ship, with a UK Government owned vessel,
the RMS St Helena, providing scheduled access for both goods and people. The UK
Government then made the decision to fund a major project to build an airport on the island,
which was completed and certified to commence operations on 10 May 2016.

Geographical restrictions meant there were limited locations for siting the runway, which
was constructed in an area called Prosperous Bay Plain. Completion of the airport required
extensive earthworks to accommodate the single 1,950 m long concrete runway, aligned
01/191, at an elevation of 1,017 ft. The location of the runway and the need for such
extensive works meant that the land at either end of the runway dropped away steeply and
there was only limited space available for parking aircraft.

On completion, it was found the runway suffered from significant turbulence and wind shear
due to the prevailing wind and local topography. This predominately affected aircraft on
final approach to Runway 19, sometimes preventing them touching down and requiring
them to go-around. The alternative of landing downwind on Runway 01 greatly reduced
the turbulence problem, but resulted in significant payload restrictions due to the tail wind
component encountered. The situation was sufficiently severe that research was conducted
in 2016 which indicated that significant changes to the local topography could considerably
reduce turbulence and wind shear on the approach to Runway 19. These changes were
not, however, carried out and the situation remained.
Footnote
1
    The runway was redeclared in early 2022, being previously Runway 02/20.


© Crown copyright 2026                              2                                All times are UTC

AAIB Bulletin:                             ZS-YAD                                  AAIB-29325


Certification of the airport is the responsibility of Air Safety Support International (ASSI),
a not-for-profit wholly-owned subsidiary of the UK Civil Aviation Authority. ASSI also has
the responsibility for managing the civil aviation State Safety Programme for St Helena on
behalf of the Governor.

Commercial air services

Commercial air services commenced on 14 October 2017 and the RMS St Helena’s final
voyage from the island took place in February 2018, after which the ship was sold. A
tender had been run to select an operator to provide regular air services to St Helena in
place of the ship, intended to start in 2016. The original winner of the tender was based
in South Africa and operated B737-800 aircraft. It never commenced passenger flights
after a single trial flight to St Helena on 18 April 2016 proved too problematic due to the
issues with the turbulence on the approach. A further operator was then selected, which
was also based in South Africa, and operated the Embraer ERJ-190. Prior to passenger
operations commencing, the aircraft manufacturer conducted trial flights to the island in
December 2016 to assess the aircraft’s suitability and the most effective means of operating
flights under the prevailing conditions. These trials were reported to be successful and
passenger flights commenced in October 2017 under the new operator, initially on a weekly
basis.
