AAIB Bulletin: 8/2026                     G-MLZZ                                   AAIB-31685


Accident

Aircraft Type and Registration:            Skyranger Swift 912S(1), G-MLZZ

No & Type of Engines:                      1 Rotax 912ULS piston engine

Year of Manufacture:                       2007 (Serial no: BMAA/HB/557)

Date & Time (UTC):                         24 April 2026 at 1740 hrs

Location:                                  Balado Airfield, Kinross

Type of Flight:                            Private

Persons on Board:                          Crew - 1               Passengers - 1

Injuries:                                  Crew - 1 (Minor)       Passengers - None

Nature of Damage:                          Aircraft destroyed by fire

Commander’s Licence:                       National Private Pilot’s Licence

Commander’s Age:                           70 years

Commander’s Flying Experience:             429 hours (of which 34 were on type)
                                           Last 90 days - 8 hours
                                           Last 28 days - 4 hours

Information Source:                        Aircraft Accident Report Form submitted by the
                                           pilot


Synopsis

During a flight, the pilot was alerted to the presence of high levels of carbon monoxide by
his active detector. Having taken action to increase the ventilation, he landed at the nearest
airfield. During the approach the engine began to fluctuate in power and stopped just after
landing. After attempting to restart the engine, the pilot noticed smoke and then flames from
under the cowls. The aircraft was consumed by fire. The cause of the carbon monoxide
and the fire was not established.

History of the flight

The pilot was flying from Laurencekirk Airfield, Aberdeenshire to Strathaven Airfield, South
Lanarkshire. On takeoff the pilot heard what he described as an unusual engine noise, but
he elected to continue the flight as it was not associated with a noticeable loss of power or
abnormal indications.

When the aircraft was to the south-west of Dundee around 40 minutes into the flight,
the pilot was alerted to the presence of carbon monoxide by his active detector. He
noted that there was still no change in engine performance and no visual sign, taste or
smell of anything amiss in the cabin. The detector, which had a digital display in parts
per million (ppm), was now reading 465 ppm so the pilot decided to land at the nearest
airfield, Balado. He opened both windows and flew sideslipped to improve the ventilation
and the reading reduced to 190 ppm as a result.


© Crown copyright 2026                       43                                     All times are UTC

AAIB Bulletin: 8/2026                            G-MLZZ                                     AAIB-31685


On approach to Balado the engine power began to fluctuate, and this resulted in what the
pilot described as a “hard landing”. The engine finally stopped whilst he was vacating the
runway onto the taxiway. He made several attempts to restart the engine but whilst it would
turn over, it would not catch and run. He observed that there was smoke beginning to
appear from under the cowls and, when he vacated the aircraft to look, he could see flames.
Although the pilot and another person at the airfield gathered some extinguishers, they felt
it was too dangerous to approach the aircraft as the flames had by then taken hold. By
the time the local fire service arrived to extinguish the remaining fire, the aircraft had been
destroyed.

Carbon monoxide

Carbon monoxide is a colourless, odourless and tasteless gas produced by the incomplete
combustion of carbon-based fuels. When inhaled, it enters the bloodstream and binds
with haemoglobin in red blood cells to form carboxyhaemoglobin. This reduces the blood’s
ability to carry oxygen. Early symptoms of exposure can include headache, dizziness,
drowsiness, nausea, fatigue, and confusion. More severe exposure may result in visual
disturbance, shortness of breath, abdominal pain, and loss of consciousness. The normal
background level of carbon monoxide would be between 0 – 9 ppm.

In light aircraft, a common source of carbon monoxide exposure is exhaust gas leakage
into cabin heating systems that use air passed over the engine’s exhaust manifold. Cracks,
corrosion, or failed seals in the exhaust system can allow fumes to enter the cabin, creating
a significant safety risk to occupants. The CAA have produced a Safety Sense Leaflet1 on
carbon monoxide which contains extensive details and advice for pilots.

Active carbon monoxide detector

The pilot always carried an active carbon monoxide detector with him when he flew. He had
previously experienced a carbon monoxide leak in another aircraft and had found the active
detector a vital tool in recognising the leak before he was affected. He noted that in this
case the alarm was clearly audible, even through his headset. Although the detector had a
digital readout in ppm, the pilot was unsure of what levels should be considered dangerous
and at what point he would need to react.

The Safety Sense Leaflet suggests that 50 ppm, which is the threshold at which many
active detectors start alerting, to be an ‘appropriate threshold that minimises excessive
low-level alerting whilst also giving the pilot time to respond to a CO event.’

Actions to take for carbon monoxide

The Safety Sense Leaflet suggests that the pilot take action straight away in the event of
the alert sounding in the air or on the ground and that these actions should include turning
off the heat supply and maximizing fresh air into the aircraft. If the aircraft is airborne then
the leaflet suggests landing as soon as possible rather than waiting for the situation to get

Footnote
1
    https://www.caa.co.uk/media/xs5axnpi/safety-sense-leaflet-34.pdf [accessed May 2026].


© Crown copyright 2026                              44                                       All times are UTC

AAIB Bulletin: 8/2026                      G-MLZZ                                  AAIB-31685


worse. If pilots are experiencing symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning or if the readings
are persistently high, then an off-airfield landing should be considered.

The pilot of G-MLZZ commented that opening both windows and sideslipping the aircraft to
increase the ventilation had a significant effect on the level of carbon monoxide indicated
on the alarm. The aircraft's pitch attitude and airspeed also affected the level of carbon
monoxide in the cabin.

Other information
The cause of the carbon monoxide and the fire in the engine after landing was not determined.

Analysis

During a flight from Laurencekirk to Strathaven the pilot was alerted to the presence of a
very high concentration of carbon monoxide by his active detector. He took immediate
action to divert to the nearest airfield and increase the ventilation in the cabin. The engine
began to fluctuate on approach to Balado, and the variation in power lead the aircraft to land
heavily. The engine stopped completely shortly after landing. After making a number of
attempts to restart the engine, the pilot noticed smoke appearing from under the cowls. By
