WILDEARTH GUARDIANS

IBLA 2019-0002                                                Decided January 15, 2026

       Appeal from a Record of Decision issued by the Pinedale Field Office, Bureau of
Land Management, approving the Normally Pressured Lance Natural Gas Development
Project. DOI-BLM-WY-D010-2011-0001-EIS.

      Vacated.

APPEARANCES: Samantha Ruscavage-Barz, Esq., WildEarth Guardians, Santa Fe, New
Mexico, for WildEarth Guardians; Philip C. Lowe, Esq., and Kimberly Jackson, Esq., U.S.
Department of the Interior, Office of the Regional Solicitor, Lakewood, Colorado, for the
Bureau of Land Management; Shannon Leininger, Esq., Wyoming Attorney General’s
Office, Cheyenne, Wyoming, for the State of Wyoming; Kathleen L. Schroder, Esq., Gail
L. Wurtzler, Esq., and Courtney M. Shephard, Esq., Davis Graham & Stubbs LLP, Denver,
Colorado, for Jonah Energy, LLC.

                    OPINION BY ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGE GUNTER

       WildEarth Guardians has appealed a Record of Decision issued by the Pinedale
Field Office, Bureau of Land Management (BLM), approving the Normally Pressured
Lance Natural Gas Development Project (the NPL Project).1 WildEarth contends that
BLM’s approval of the NPL Project violated the Clean Air Act and the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). We hold that BLM’s Record of Decision was not
supported by a valid Clean Air Act conformity determination, and we therefore vacate
the Record of Decision.

                                       SUMMARY

      The NPL Project is a natural gas development project in Wyoming proposed by
Jonah Energy LLC. BLM approved the Project in a 2018 Record of Decision. BLM made a


1
  Administrative Record (AR), NPL-2717, Bureau of Land Management, Normally
Pressured Lance Natural Gas Development Project, Record of Decision (Aug. 2018)
(Record of Decision). BLM has filed the record on appeal as a series of PDF files, each
with a document number beginning “NPL-.” We cite the number of the document and its
internal page numbers.


                                       201 IBLA 1

                                                                          IBLA 2019-0002


determination that the NPL Project, as approved, would satisfy the general conformity
requirements of the Clean Air Act as stated in regulations promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and incorporated into Wyoming’s regulations
and State Implementation Plan. WildEarth argues that BLM’s conformity determination
failed to analyze emissions from all relevant sources—specifically, Jonah Energy’s
portable drill rig fleet. Emissions from the drill rig fleet are authorized by a New Source
Review (NSR) permit issued by Wyoming. BLM excluded the drill rig fleet from its
conformity analysis in reliance on an exemption for emissions from “stationary sources”
that “require a permit under the new source review (NSR) program.” We hold that this
exemption did not apply here. Although we do not question that the drill rig fleet may be
(and was) subject to an NSR permit, the drill rigs are not “stationary sources,” and the
unambiguous language of the exemption therefore made it inapplicable.

       WildEarth also argues that the Record of Decision violated Clean Air Act
conformity requirements because BLM’s conformity determination depended upon a pace
of development—i.e., a number of wells approved per year—lower than the proposed
action studied in the Final EIS. This argument is without merit, because that reduced
pace of development was incorporated into the Record of Decision itself. BLM approved
the NPL Project only as limited to a number of wells per year that, as BLM determines in
future site-specific decisions, will maintain emissions below the de minimis threshold for
conformity.

       Finally, WildEarth argues that BLM violated NEPA by failing to analyze the
cumulative greenhouse gas emissions from the NPL Project when added to the emissions
from other specific similar projects that were identified in the EIS. We do not decide this
question because BLM will likely have to assess its NEPA compliance again before
reaching any further decision on the NPL Project, and the principles governing that NEPA
compliance have materially changed since this appeal was filed. We therefore leave it to
BLM to decide, in the first instance, what NEPA may require at the time of any further
decision.

                                     BACKGROUND

       Jonah Energy holds Federal oil and gas leases in Sublette County, Wyoming.2
Jonah Energy proposed to develop the NPL Project on approximately 141,000 acres in
Sublette County, of which more than 96% was Federal land administered by BLM.3 Most
of the NPL Project area has been designated by BLM for oil and gas leasing and



2
  AR, NPL-2720, Bureau of Land Management, Normally Pressured Lance Natural Gas
Development Project, Final Environmental Impact Statement at 1-2 (June 2018) (Final
