May 2025




Notice of Ofwat’s decision to
issue an enforcement order
and impose a financial penalty
on Thames Water
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water


Contents

1.   Introduction                                                                            7

2. Relevant background                                                                       9

3. Our investigation                                                                        48

4. Our assessment and findings                                                             129

5. Our decision to issue an enforcement order                                              161

6. Our decision to impose a financial penalty                                              167

A1: Enforcement Order                                                                      181

A2: Summary of Responses to Consultation                                                  190

A3: List of potentially non-compliant sites by category                                    210

A4: List of sites covered by Compliance First plan                                         214

A5: List of high spilling storm overflows                                                  217

A6: List of sites at which Thames Water has conducted SOAF assessments                     223

A7: Penalties framework                                                                   233




                                                 1
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water


About this document

This document constitutes a notice under section 22A(6) of the Water Industry Act 1991. It
sets out our decision to impose a financial penalty on Thames Water as a result of its
contraventions of the Urban Waste Water Treatment (England and Wales) Regulations 1994,
section 94 of the Water Industry Act 1991 and Condition P of its Licence. It also includes an
enforcement order under section 18 WIA91 requiring Thames Water to remedy the
contraventions that we have identified.

This decision follows the publication, on 6 August 2024, of a consultation on our proposal to
impose an enforcement order and a financial penalty on Thames Water. This document
summarises the evidence that we have gathered and sets out our findings in relation to the
issues under investigation, including why we believe that Thames Water has contravened its
statutory duties and the obligations of its Licence. It summarises the responses we received
to the draft decision and how we have taken those into consideration in reaching our final
decision.




                                                 2
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water


Executive summary

This notice describes the findings of our investigation in relation to Thames Water’s failings
and how these have occurred. The failings relate to the management, operation,
maintenance and performance of its wastewater treatment works (WWTW) and the
collecting systems (that is, its sewer networks – the network) that are used to supply them.
These are vital assets that are used to clean and treat sewage (or wastewater 1) and which
have a direct impact on the environment, particularly bodies of water, such as rivers or
streams, into which wastewater is released.

It follows a lengthy investigation during which we made multiple detailed requests for
information and data to Thames Water. In addition, we have reviewed environmental
performance and spills data published by the Environment Agency and also considered
relevant information provided to Ofwat by stakeholders.

Having reviewed this information, we have identified that most of Thames Water's WWTW
have storm overflows associated with them that spill regularly to the environment. In 2021,
for example, over 70% of these storm overflows spilled on 20 or more occasions, with almost
30% spilling on more than 60 occasions. Thames Water has failed to demonstrate that these
spills resulted from exceptional circumstances, or that it would have been excessively costly
to address the spills from these storm overflows. Indeed, the information that we assessed
showed that at the majority of its highest spilling storm overflows, operational and asset
maintenance issues were identified as the reason for the high spills.

These high spill levels result from Thames Water not having built and appropriately operated
its WWTW, which is reflected in the number of its WWTW that failed to meet the operational
expectations of their environmental permit requirements in relation to flow to full treatment
(157 WWTW or almost two thirds of Thames Water's WWTW with FFT permits or Temporary
Deemed Consents); dry weather flow (ten WWTW) performance; or which were found to have
insufficient storm tank capacity. While the number of high spilling storm overflows on
Thames Water's network was much lower, it emerged that Thames Water had failed to
identify over 300 storm overflows on its network which had not been monitored, and in many
instances, were also unpermitted. We consider the problems identified to be systemic across
the company's asset base, and that they have been occurring since at least 2017.

The information we have gathered also showed us that Thames Water did not have
appropriate and robust processes and controls in place to ensure that it was able to properly
deliver its wastewater business in line with its legal obligations. It lacked adequate processes
to enable it to properly monitor and assess compliance with its legal and regulatory


1
    Wastewater and sewage may be used inter-changeably in this document.



                                                   3
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

obligations and, even when it was aware of potential compliance risks across its WWTW
estate and on its network, it failed to take action to address those risks effectively and with
sufficient urgency. In addition, Thames Water's senior management and Board had
inadequate oversight in relation to the compliance of its assets.

We published a draft decision for consultation in August 2024, setting out these findings and
proposing to issue the company with an enforcement order and a financial penalty. (We had
previously provided Thames Water with a copy of our provisional findings in December 2023
and given it an opportunity to comment on these and to provide any additional evidence that
it considered relevant to our investigation). In response to our consultation, we received a
detailed response from Thames Water as well responses from a number of other
stakeholders. A summary of these responses is set out in Appendix A2.


Having reviewed the information obtained during the course of our investigation and having
considered the comments we received in response to the consultation on our draft decision,
we have now reached a final decision in this case.

We have concluded that Thames Water failed to meet the following duties and obligations:

   •   to ensure its WWTW perform sufficiently in terms of design, construction, operation
       and maintenance so that spills only occur in exceptional or unforeseeable cases
       (accounting for seasonal variations), subject to best technical knowledge available not
       entailing excessive cost (BTKNEEC), under Regulation 4(4) of the Urban Waste Water
       Treatment (England and Wales) Regulations 1994 (UWWTR);


   •   to ensure its collecting systems (network) are constructed, operated and maintained
       according to BTKNEEC, under Regulation 4(2) and Schedule 2 UWWTR;

   •   to provide effectual drainage of its local areas and to effectually deal with the contents
       of its sewers, under section 94 of the Water Industry Act 1991 (WIA91); and


   •   to ensure as a company that it is run efficiently and effectively in compliance with its
       statutory duties, under Condition P of its instrument of appointment (Licence).


Based on the evidence provided to us, these failures to comply were caused by the company:

   •   failing to operate and maintain its assets adequately, and to upgrade them where
       necessary, to ensure they provided sufficient performance in accordance with
       BTKNEEC.

   •   failing to put in place adequate processes, resources and systems to enable it to
       routinely monitor and maintain operational capacity and performance and hence to



                                                 4
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       ensure sufficient performance in accordance with BTKNEEC at its WWTW and to ensure
       that its sewer networks comply with the requirements of Schedule 2 UWWTR.

   •   failing to put in place adequate processes to identify and address emerging and
       present compliance risks and failures effectively and in a timely manner and
       responding to changes over time in the catchments served by its WWTW and network.

   •   failing put in place adequate processes and systems to ensure that its data gathering,
       verification and analysis processes were fit-for-purpose to make a reasonable
       assessment of compliance and respond to variances in data quality across its asset
       base.

   •   failing to ensure its Executive and Board received and/or sought sufficient information
       and assurance on the operational performance of the company's wastewater assets
       and their compliance with relevant legal obligations. This lack of adequate oversight
       resulted in the company's management failing to be aware of and/or failing to address
       compliance failures and risks.


Thames Water’s failure to operate and manage its WWTW and network appropriately has
meant that it has not minimised the adverse effects its disposal of wastewater can have on
the environment. This failure has resulted in unpermitted and premature spills of wastewater
from its WWTW and network - where wastewater has not gone through all of the treatment
processes it is supposed to before being released into the environment. Such spills impact on
the environment and can cause harm to the health and biodiversity of water bodies, the
ability of customers to use water bodies recreationally in a safe way, and on customer and
public trust in Thames Water, the wider water sector and its regulatory regime.

Thames Water has developed plans to restore compliance at 157 of its WWTW that it has
identified as potentially non-compliant with FFT and other environmental permit conditions
(what Thames Water terms its 'sites of concern'). These plans are expected to be delivered by
the end of AMP8, that is, by 2030. The company has also accelerated the roll-out of new
monitors and has implemented new tools to enable it to have a more timely view of what is
happening at individual sites. It has introduced new operational and governance
arrangements to ensure greater oversight of what is happening across its WWTW estate and
network; has made improvements to the way in which it identifies and manages risks; and
has taken steps to ensure a clearer line of sight for its Executive and Board in relation to the
performance of its wastewater assets and the company's compliance with its environmental
obligations.

Notwithstanding the measures that Thames Water has already introduced, or is proposing to
introduce, Ofwat considers that there are additional steps that the company needs to take in
order to ensure it is compliant with its legal and regulatory obligations. We also consider that
the contraventions that have taken place are sufficiently serious to warrant the imposition of
a significant penalty in this case. Ofwat has decided, therefore, to:



                                                 5
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

     •     Issue an enforcement order under section 18 WIA91, requiring Thames Water to take
           particular steps to facilitate its compliance with UWWTR, Section 94 and Licence
           Condition P.
     •     Impose a financial penalty under section 22A WIA91 equivalent to 9.0% (£104.5
           million) of the company's relevant turnover from its wastewater business.

In reaching this decision we have taken account of Thames Water's financial position and
wider operational challenges in the context of our section 2 WIA91 duties. We do not consider
that any of the exceptions to our duty to make an enforcement order, as set out in section 19
WIA91, apply. We have formulated our remedies to be proportionate to achieving compliance
as efficiently and effectively as possible to the benefit of consumers and the environment and
the resilience of Thames Water's network, whilst taking account of affordability,
financeability and deliverability. It is open to Thames Water to propose alternative payment
terms for the financial penalty, that we must consider under section 22A(7) WIA91.

Thames Water is also subject to ongoing investigations by the Environment Agency in relation
to non-compliance with environmental permits. The Environment Agency is the responsible
authority in England for issuing environmental permits for WWTW and storm overflows; for
monitoring compliance with those permits; and for taking enforcement action against
companies for breaches of permit conditions.

For the avoidance of doubt, Ofwat’s findings in this notice are purely about the obligations in
respect of which Ofwat has jurisdiction. We are not seeking to make findings about
environmental permit failures or whether the acts of Thames Water or its employees, were
criminal in nature. These matters are currently being dealt with by the Environment Agency.




                                                   6
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water


1.        Introduction

1.1       This document constitutes a notice issued by the Water Services Regulation Authority
          (Ofwat) to inform Thames Water Utilities Limited (Thames Water) 2 that it has
          decided to issue an enforcement order under section 18 WIA91 and impose on it a
          penalty under sections 22A(1) and (2) WIA91.

1.2       The enforcement order and penalty relate to Thames Water:

             •   breaching its duties under Regulation 4(4) UWWTR and Regulation 4(2) and
                 Schedule 2 UWWTR. The UWWTR supplement the duty imposed on every
                 sewerage undertaker by section 94 WIA91 by obliging companies to meet
                 certain minimum standards for its WWTW and collecting systems. Any
                 contravention of those provisions of the UWWTR is treated, for the purposes of
                 the WIA91, as a breach of that duty. 3
             •   breaching its general duty under section 94 WIA91 by systemically breaching
                 its UWWTR duties and thereby failing effectually to provide drainage and deal
                 with the contents of its sewers.
             •   breaching Condition P12 of its Licence in relation to the adequacy of its
                 resources and systems of planning and internal control to enable it to carry out
                 its regulated activities, particularly in relation to its obligations under the
                 Regulation 4 and Schedule 2 UWWTR.

1.3       Ofwat considers that a penalty of 9.0% of Thames Water’s relevant wastewater
          business turnover for 2023-24 is appropriate in all the circumstances of this
          investigation. This amounts to £104.5 million.

    1.4   This document provides more details of the enforcement order and financial penalty
          referenced above, together with details of the contraventions to which it relates, in
          Sections 2 to 6 of this notice. This notice is structured as follows:

             •   Section 2 sets out some relevant background on the operation of wastewater
                 network and treatment works, the environmental permits under which Thames
                 Water's WWTW and network assets operate and the relevant legislative
                 framework.
             •   Section 3 explains the nature of our investigation and summarises the
                 evidence we have considered.




2
  Thames Water was appointed as a water and sewerage undertaker in 1989 under an instrument of
appointment issued by the Secretary of State for the Environment.
3
  Regulation 4(1) UWWTR.

                                                    7
Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                    on Thames Water

   •   Section 4 sets out our assessment of this evidence and our findings in relation
       to breaches of the provisions listed above.

   •   Section 5 outlines our decision to issue an enforcement order in this case.
   •   Section 6 details the facts which we consider justify our decision to impose a
       financial penalty, and the amount of that penalty.




                                          8
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water


2.        Relevant background

2.1       This section provides background information on the provision, operation and
          maintenance of typical WWTW and sewerage systems; the relevant legislative
          framework for our investigation; and our approach to enforcement of the relevant
          provisions.

2.2       The provision, operation and maintenance of WWTW and sewerage systems is subject
          to a range of legal obligations which are linked to the overarching requirements of
          Regulation 4 UWWTR. These include requirements from the environmental permitting
          regime which are aimed at ensuring that assets operate within the parameters of the
          UWWTR and do not have an unacceptable impact on the environment. In England, the
          Environment Agency is responsible for setting, checking, and enforcing compliance
          with permits and has powers to take enforcement or other regulatory action with
          respect to permit compliance. The permit sets out aspects of how the asset should
          operate and conditions around discharges. The requirements are specific to the asset
          being permitted as the nature of the receiving water bodies will vary from place to
          place, as will the volume and characteristics of the wastewater the asset is dealing
          with.


Sewerage Systems

2.3       Sewerage systems collect foul sewage from bathroom and kitchens in homes and
          offices and wastewater from industrial processes. Sewerage systems have developed
          over many years and can also collect rainwater from varying sources such as roofs and
          roads. Therefore, the flows of wastewater in sewerage systems vary substantially
          between different systems, throughout the day, and with changes in weather.

2.4       There are two broad types of sewerage systems:

      •     A fully separate sewer system has two sets of pipes for foul sewage and rainwater
            with no interconnections. Some rainfall will infiltrate into the foul sewer system,
            however, from groundwater or via manhole covers.
      •     A combined sewer system has a single set of pipes that collect both foul sewage and
            rain from roofs, patios and driveways, etc.

2.5       The catchments of WWTW are made of one, or both, of these types of systems. Older
          urban catchments typically consist of a central combined sewer system that has been
          expanded by the connection of separate sewer systems over time. In England and
          Wales most of the sewer systems operate as combined sewer systems.

2.6       Sewerage systems transport flows of sewage and wastewater to a WWTW for treatment
          before it is discharged to the environment. Sewerage systems may have storm

                                                    9
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       overflows, which enable the discharge of untreated sewage directly into a watercourse
       before it reaches the WWTW during unusually heavy rainfall. This prevents the WWTW
       from receiving more sewage than it can cope with and being overwhelmed and/or the
       sewage flowing back into people's homes. The sewage is a mixture of foul sewage and
       rainwater and is often termed storm sewage.

2.7    Storm overflows in the sewerage system are, in essence, a weir in the sewer pipe. The
       level of this weir should be far above that of the level of flow in the sewer that is due to
       foul sewage only, that is when it is not raining (termed dry weather flow - DWF). In a
       storm, flows in the sewer will increase as rainwater drains into it. If the rainfall is
       unusually heavy the flow will increase to above the level of the weir and the excess
       storm sewage will be discharged to the watercourse. Storm overflows are typically
       designed and operated to 'pass-forward' a set level of flow before such discharges
       begin. The pass-forward flow (PFF) has historically been expressed as a multiple of the
       flow level during dry weather. This is, in effect, a measure of how much the foul
       sewage has been diluted by rainwater. Where storm overflows have an environmental
       permit (permit), discharges from those storm overflows must comply with
       requirements set out in that permit. As explained below (see paragraph 2.15), these
       permits are issued by the Environment Agency, and set a series of conditions intended
       to protect the environment from harm from discharges. The PFF for that storm
       overflow is typically a condition in its permit.

2.8    Historically, a storm overflow may have been designed and permitted to discharge
       when the PFF exceeded six times the DWF. However, this was only a 'rule of thumb' to
       prompt consideration of whether the potential for environmental harm necessitated
       further action. This historical rule of thumb was replaced in the 1970s by an
       alternative calculation, often referred to as Formula A (set out below). Formula A is
       used today as a basis for setting minimum PFF rates at many storm overflows, often in
       conjunction with a simple estimation of the dilution rate of the storm sewage in the
       watercourse. The formula can be adjusted to suit local conditions, for example if a
       proportion of the catchment is a separate sewer system. More complex procedures,
       such as that set out in the Urban Pollution Management Manual, are also used to
       assess the potential for ecological harm using mathematical simulation of models of
       the river water quality and of the sewerage system.4



                     Formula A overflow setting (litres/day) = DWF + 1360P + 2E

                     And, DWF = PG + I + E

                     Where,
                     P – population (head)
                     G – water consumption per person (litres/ day)

4 Urban Pollution Management Manual, 3rd Edition, updated 7 January 2019.


                                                 10
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

                         I – sewer infiltration rate (litres/day)
                         E – average industrial effluent (litres/day)



2.9    Storm overflows in the sewer network can operate inappropriately, causing
       environmental harm. This can result from:

       •     Population growth, which can result in increases in flow, potentially beyond the DWF
             level set in the permit.
       •     Urban creep, a term that refers to the increase in impermeable areas as, for
             example, gardens are paved over, which can result in more rainfall draining to
             sewers.

2.10       If a sewer's design is not increased to reflect this higher flow level, over time both of
           the above factors can contribute to an increase in the frequency and volume of
           discharges from storm overflows.

2.11       In addition, storm overflows can operate inappropriately due to inadequate
           maintenance, with the result that they are not operating to their designed capacity.
           For example, deposits of silt or fats and oils can build up in sewers. These deposits can
           restrict the ability of the system to pass forward sufficient flow. This can result in
           discharges from the storm overflow outside of unusually heavy rain. In severe cases,
           discharges can occur even when it is not or has not recently been raining. Such 'dry-
           day' discharges 5 of foul sewage can be highly polluting as the flow is not diluted by
           heavy rain.

2.12       If the operation of the storm overflow is unsatisfactory then improvements can be
           made to either reduce the frequency of discharges or to reduce the pollutants in the
           discharge. One way in which the frequency of discharges can be reduced is by
           providing a tank that stores the excess flow so it can be passed forward for treatment
           when the storm has passed. Where a permit requires that such storage is provided,
           the minimum volume of the storage tank is set out in the environmental permit. 6

2.13       Sewerage systems, in general, operate via gravity. Where this is not feasible, sewage
           pumping stations (SPS) are used to forward flows and the flows are pumped under
           pressure through rising mains. SPS in combined systems can also have storm
           overflows. There are many similarities in the operation of storm overflows at SPS and
           on the sewerage network. However, the satisfactory functioning of SPS storm



5
  The Environment Agency currently defines dry day spills as spills occurring on any day when there
has been less than 0.25mm of rainfall in the upstream catchment on that day and the preceding 24
hours.
6
  Companies can voluntarily decide to build storm tanks and may choose to build tanks with larger
volumes than the level set in the permits.

                                                     11
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       overflows is also dependent on maintaining the pumping assets to ensure appropriate
       PFF levels are met.

2.14   SPS may also have emergency overflows. These overflows can be used when the SPS
       fails to function for reasons beyond the control of the operator, often to avoid flooding
       properties with sewage. Emergency overflows should not discharge due to rainfall,
       although it is possible that a single overflow pipe can function both as an emergency
       and a storm overflow.


Wastewater treatment works

2.15   Discharges from WWTW must comply with requirements set out in legislation and
       environmental permits. An Environment Agency permit sets out aspects of how the
       works should operate. Among other things, it sets out the volume of flow that can be
       discharged following treatment on a dry day; the maximum concentration of specified
       pollutants in such discharges; and the peak flow capacity of the works. The permit
       conditions are specific to each WWTW as the nature of the receiving water bodies will
       vary from place to place, as will the volume and characteristics of the flows received
       by the works.

2.16   WWTW which serve smaller populations (typically a population equivalent (PE) 7 lower
       than 250) generally have descriptive permits which set out, in qualitative terms, how
       the WWTW should be maintained and operated. WWTW serving five or fewer properties
       may be operated under 'General Binding Rules' regulations.8

2.17   WWTW, except those serving very small populations, continually receive wastewater,
       and thus discharge treated effluent (the final effluent or FE). The permit sets a limit on
       the volume of fully treated effluent that can be discharged when flows are not
       influenced by rainfall and/or snowmelt, termed the DWF. This permitted flow volume,
       together with permit conditions around the quality of the final effluent, seeks to set an
       appropriate pollutant load that can be discharged to the receiving water without
       causing environmental harm.

2.18   A minority of WWTW do not have a DWF permit condition but instead a condition that
       sets a maximum discharge of wastewater per day. In regulating WWTW using a DWF


7
  The capacity of a WWTW is often expressed in terms of its population equivalent. The flow to a WWTW
can contain wastewater from factories and business, alongside domestic properties. The PE metric
seeks to combine these into a common factor. In determining the PE, non-domestic flows are
converted to an equivalent domestic population, based on the pollution load from the business and
that typically produced by a person in their home. The total PE is then the sum of the domestic
population in the WWTW's catchment and the equivalent population estimated from all the businesses
in the catchment.
8
  Environment Agency Guidance, General binding rules: small sewerage discharge to the ground, 16
June 2015 (updated 2 October 2023).

                                                 12
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       limit, the Environment Agency is ensuring that it does not dis-incentivise a WWTW
       operator to treat and discharge rainwater through the final effluent route. Provided
       water quality constraints are met, there is no upper flow limit on final effluent
       discharges when flows are influenced by rainfall (or snow melt).

2.19   The DWF level takes account of the population within the catchment, the number and
       type of businesses that are also generating wastewater and the volume of water
       infiltrating into the sewer systems from the groundwater table.

2.20   DWF can be determined in two different ways 9 depending on whether it is for an
       existing WWTW with a flow meter, or is being estimated, for example in order to
       determine the impact of future population growth or when designing a new WWTW. In
       the latter case, DWF can be estimated using the equation DWF = PG + I + E, as used in
       determining storm overflow settings with Formula A (set out at paragraph 2.8 above).

2.21   Where flow metering data is available, DWF can be estimated from a statistical
       analysis of daily flow readings over a year. Research concluded that DWF can be
       estimated as the non-parametric 20-percentile value of a time series of measured
       total daily volumes (TDV). This is known as Q80. Q80 is calculated by taking the TDV
       for each day of the year and placing these flow numbers in ascending order. Q80 is the
       flow on the day that is lower than 80% of total flows recorded, that is, the 20-
       percentile (or seventy-third day), and is intended to reflect the average dry day. Using
       statistical approaches introduces some uncertainty so another measure, Q90, is used
       by the Environment Agency to assess compliance with DWF permit conditions. A site
       will breach its permit where it fails to achieve its Q90 three or more times in a five-
       year period 10. Q90 is calculated in the same manner as Q80 and represents the flow on
       the day that is lower than 90% of total flows recorded. The measured Q90 will always
       be lower than the measured Q80, and it provides greater allowance for year-on-year
       variability in the flow rates. Research has shown that if Q90 is above the DWF permit
       discharge limit, then one can have 95% confidence that the WWTW is operating above
       the DWF permit limit.

2.22   To continue to serve their intended purpose of protecting the environment, WWTW and
       sewerage system assets and their associated permit conditions must be maintained
       and kept under review to reflect any changes in the catchment they serve. Companies
       should plan ahead and identify where the risk of change may necessitate additional
       treatment or capacity. For example, when population growth due to new housing
       occurs a WWTW's capacity for DWF and its associated permit conditions on DWF may
       need to increase. The final effluent water quality permit conditions may
       correspondingly need to become more stringent to ensure the pollutant load

9 Environment Agency Guidance, Calculating dry weather flow (DWF) at waste water treatment works, 8

May 2018.
10
   While individual permit conditions vary, we understand that this is the approach that will be formally
used by the Environment Agency from 2026.

                                                   13
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       discharged to the watercourse remains within acceptable limits given the increased
       flow volumes.

2.23   Infiltration of groundwater into sewers can be a significant part of DWF. The infiltration
       occurs when the groundwater table is higher than any gaps in the pipe joints and
       manhole chambers in the sewerage system. Infiltration can also occur where sewer
       pipes are fractured and have not been repaired. As the groundwater table varies with
       the weather, infiltration rates vary accordingly. Sewerage systems should be designed
       to cope with such variations that occur under normal local climatic conditions, 11 and
       maintained to ensure infiltration is as low as practicable.

2.24   As set out in the previous section, flow in a sewerage system, and thus the amount of
       flow a WWTW receives, can vary substantially over time. On a dry day, flow at a WWTW
       typically has two peaks, one in the morning as people get up and use the bathroom,
       and then again in the evening as people cook and put on their dishwashers, etc.
       WWTW must be able to cope with these peaks, and varying amounts of rainfall.

2.25   Permits thus can have a condition to ensure that the peak flows of foul sewage are
       always fully treated.12 This is the Flow to Full Treatment (FFT) requirement. This is
       distinct from the DWF in that it aims to ensure that there is sufficient treatment
       capacity to deal with peak flows coming to the works as opposed to stipulating the
       total volume of flow that can be discharged in a day.

2.26   WWTW serving fully separate sewerage systems may not have any assets dedicated to
       the treatment of storm sewage. This is because fully separate systems are expected to
       have only a minor response to rainfall. These WWTW fully treat all flows they receive.

2.27   The physical configuration of WWTW can differ from site to site. Storm sewage arriving
       at a WWTW is typically managed in the three broad configurations set out below.
       However, other systems such as land treatment are also used.

         1. WWTW with a storm overflow at the inlet only.

         2. WWTW with a Settled Storm Overflow (SSO) after storm tanks,
         3. WWTW with both a storm overflow at the inlet and an SSO.



11 The estimation of Flow to Full Treatment requirements includes the maximum infiltration that has

been determined from flow measurement taken, preferably over several years. (See Environment
Agency Guidance, Water companies: environment permits for storm overflows and emergency
overflows, 13 September 2018, section Design standards for storm overflows). Companies should have
systems of planning in place to allow infiltration to be proactively managed in the face of challenges
such as climate change.
12
   Implicit within the estimation of DWF is an allowance for light rainfall. (See Environment Agency
Guidance, Water companies: environment permits for storm overflows and emergency overflows, 13
September 2018, subsection Flow to full treatment settings at waste water treatment works.)

                                                  14
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

2.28   All WWTW can have emergency overflows, for the same reasons as set out previously
       for SPS.

2.29   Storm overflows at the inlet of WWTW operate, in essence, the same way as storm
       overflows on the sewerage network. Storm overflows at the inlet of WWTW are typically
       designed with a PFF set at six times DWF or Formula A. The discharged storm sewage
       has no further treatment, other than screening to remove coarse solids. At WWTW with
       an inlet storm overflow only, all flows up to six times DWF/Formula A are fully treated.
       The full peak capacity of the WWTW will, thus, only be utilised in heavy rain.

2.30   WWTW with storm tanks operate differently. The main purpose of storm tanks is to
       store storm sewage and return it for treatment after the rainfall has subsided. Thus,
       the treatment process does not receive very dilute flows and the peak capacity (FFT
       level) can be set at lower than six times DWF.

2.31   At WWTW with storm tanks, when it is raining, and flows to the WWTW are in excess of
       the permitted FFT level, works operators have the option within the WWTW permits to
       divert flow to the storm tanks. The diversion of flows can continue until the sewers
       have drained down to the extent that flows are lower than the FFT level. At this point
       the storm sewage in the tanks will be transferred back to the works for treatment.
       Provided the volume of diverted flow does not exceed the capacity of the storm tanks
       no discharge to the environment will occur. If the storm is intense or sustained,
       generating more storm sewage than the tanks can cope with, the permit allows the
       operator to discharge to the environment.

2.32   The point at which flows are diverted to storm tanks from the main treatment process
       is normally after screening and the removal of grit (often termed preliminary
       treatment). Further settlement of pollutants can occur in the storm tanks, and
       therefore discharges via this route may be considered partially treated. However,
       during extremely heavy storms any settled pollutants may be flushed into the river.
       These overflows are often termed settled storm overflows to differentiate them from
       other types of storm overflows. As noted above, it is also possible that storm overflows
       located in the network are provided with storm tanks.

2.33   Operators must provide storm tanks of sufficient storage capacity to protect the
       environment and minimum volumes are typically specified in environmental permits.
       All other things being equal, a WWTW with a lower storm tank volume will have a
       higher frequency of settled storm overflow spills, and thus potentially environmental
       harm.

2.34   Current Environment Agency guidance states that storm tanks "must settle out solids
       and have a minimum capacity of 68 litres per head served or a storage equivalent of




                                                 15
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       two hours at the maximum flow rate to the storm tanks".13 In our investigation we have
       benchmarked storm tank provision to a volume equivalent to six hours of DWF for the
       WWTW. This is derived from the historical asset standard which formed the basis of
       the current guidance.14 It can be applied simply to all WWTW; although it may be an
       underestimate of required provision at many WWTW, it is accepted for some WWTW it
       may be an overestimate.

2.35   For a WWTW with storm tanks, the FFT requirement is typically stated notionally as
       three times the DWF, that is the peak flow rate is taken as three times the average flow
       rate over a day, as shown in the equation below. As set out previously, the FFT level
       reflects variations in the flow rate of domestic and industrial wastewater. Infiltration is
       not expected to show such daily variation and is relatively constant, hence it is not
       subject to the multiplier. In most cases FFT is actually around 2.5 to 2.7 times DWF.



                      Flow to Full Treatment Rate (litres/day) = 3PG + Imax + 3E

                      Where,
                      P – population (head)
                      G – Water consumption per person (litres/head day)
                      Imax – Maximum sewer infiltration rate (litres/day)
                      E – Average industrial effluent (litres/day)



2.36   This 'rule of thumb' of FFT being equal, notionally, to three times DWF is suitable for
       most catchments and makes some allowance for rainwater. However, the ratio of peak
       to average flow will vary from catchment to catchment depending mainly on the size of
       the catchment, topography, and the population within it.

2.37   It takes time for sewage to flow from homes to the WWTW. In large catchments the
       peak flows from houses close to the WWTW will reach it sooner than the peak flows
       from houses further away. As the peak flows from across the catchment do not
       coincide, as they may do for a smaller catchment, the maximum peak flow will be
       lower, on a per property basis, but flows will be elevated for a longer time. Therefore,
       for large WWTW with storm tanks the ratio of FFT to DWF is often set lower than three
       times DWF. 15 However, lower ratios of FFT to DWF can result in higher levels of storm
       overflow spills as there is less capacity to treat storm sewage. In accepting a lower FFT


13 Environment Agency Guidance, Water companies: environment permits for storm overflows and

emergency overflows, 13 September 2018, section Storm sewage requirements. This asset standard is
based on a government report: Ministry of Housing and Local Government (1970). Technical Committee
on Storm Overflows and the Disposal of Storm Sewage. Final Report. HMSO London (Technical
Committee Report).
14
   Technical Committee Report, paragraph 283, page 63.
15
   In addition, the 3*DWF does not take in account the fact that infiltration does not have a diurnal
pattern. Therefore, in practice peak flow rates may be set without multiplying that element of DWF.

                                                 16
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

           to DWF ratio, it is essential to determine if the storm overflow's performance remains
           satisfactory. The meaning of 'satisfactory' in this context is further detailed below (see
           paragraphs 2.53 to 2.61).

2.38       Similarly with smaller catchments, many flows from properties can arrive
           simultaneously and create peak flows higher than the notional three times DWF. At
           these works the FFT level can be substantially higher, occasionally up to nine times
           DWF. Such works may have a tank at the WWTW inlet to balance flows, that is, to store
           peak flows for treatment later. These tanks are distinct from storm tanks as they take
           all flows and are not just utilised in response to rainfall.

2.39       If a water company is diverting flows to storm tanks, or the environment, before
           reaching, or whilst not sustaining, the FFT level required by its permit, it could be
           breaking the conditions of that environmental permit. 16 A WWTW may fail to achieve or
           sustain FFT permit requirements either because the assets themselves are not fit for
           purpose, because they have not been built with sufficient capacity, or because they
           have not been appropriately operated or adequately maintained.

2.40       Potential causes of a WWTW failing to meet performance requirements include the
           following factors.

       •     Poor site flow control, for example, assets at the WWTW that help control flow, such
             as overflow weirs, penstocks and valves, can be incorrectly set by operators or via
             remote controls and/or assets on the sites can be operated incorrectly. There may
             be limited capability to manage, or balance flows coming from the pumping stations
             preceding the WWTW.

       •     Incorrect or lacking site operating data, for example, meters may give inaccurate
             readings due to faulty installation and/or a lack of calibration. Telemetry systems
             may fail to report and/or store data results, and insufficient data may be available to
             support operations.

       •     Inadequate operational maintenance of the WWTW may result in blockages due to
             rag and/or other debris including grit build-up that can lead to a loss of the WWTW's
             intended hydraulic capacity.

       •     Inadequate capital maintenance resulting in the failure of aged and deteriorated
             assets and assets becoming obsolete or no longer fit for purpose, for example,
             screens incapable of passing flow.




16
  While a spill to storm tank in such circumstances may not result in harm to the environment as flows
may be later returned to treatment, this action will reduce the available storage that could be utilised
to avoid sewage spills.

                                                     17
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

       •     Inappropriate operation of treatment processes at a lower hydraulic capacity to
             safeguard final effluent water quality.

       •     Insufficient hydraulic capacity of assets, such as pipework, distribution chambers,
             pumping plant and treatment process units, to meet the flows coming to the WWTW
             and/or its permit conditions (even when appropriately maintained). Poorly designed
             assets can be insufficiently resilient due to a lack of asset and/or process stand-by
             capacity.



Monitoring the performance and compliance of sewerage
system assets
2.41       The conditions in any catchment change over time, putting different demands on the
           sewerage systems and WWTW serving them. The capacity and operation of these
           assets, and their associated environmental permits relating to flow management,
           need to be kept under review and changed as appropriate. Systems of monitoring
           need to cover static factors (such as storm tank volumes), factors that continually
           change (such as flow rates), and the impact of the discharges on the environment.

2.42       Figure 2.1 below shows the various stages of a typical sewerage system, from the point
           waste leaves people's homes, to entering the WWTW, to the point at which treated
           wastewater is discharged. It also shows the point at which flow may be diverted to
           storm tanks and, if the capacity of these tanks is exceeded, the flow may be
           discharged to the environment.

2.43       While sewerage systems can vary significantly, Figure 2.1 also shows points within the
           system where monitors may typically be installed. These monitors, which provide data
           on flows at various stages of the treatment process, can help companies to manage
           the performance and compliance of their assets.




                                                     18
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Figure 2.1: Representation of a typical sewerage system




2.44   Instrumentation, including flow monitoring, is a highly desirable tool in correctly
       managing and optimising the operation of a WWTW. However, such operational
       monitors may not always be suitable for assuring compliance as they may not be in an
       appropriate location, nor measure and record the right things to a sufficient level of
       accuracy. Companies should have in place robust processes to ensure their own
       compliance. This should likely include using flow metering and other monitors unless
       compliance can be robustly assured by other means.

2.45   WWTW with a DWF greater than 50 m3 per day, and numeric quality limited, typically
       have a condition within their permits requiring final effluent flow to be monitored at
       least every 15-minutes to MCERTS Standard. 17 These meters are situated, typically but
       not always, at the point of the final effluent discharge, and record the total daily flow.
       This daily flow data, for a calendar year, is analysed to determine the Q80 and Q90 flow
       values used for establishing DWF levels. The data is reported annually to the
       Environment Agency as part of its process to monitor compliance with DWF permit
       requirements.



17 The Environment Agency established its Monitoring Certification Scheme (MCERTS) to deliver quality

environmental measurements. The scheme is based on international standards and provides for the
product certification of instruments, the competency certification of personnel and the accreditation
of laboratories.
The MCERTS scheme requires an audited management system to ensure the quality of the data from
the flow meters is independent assessed. Under the MCERTS scheme a flow monitoring system must
meet an uncertainty of +/-8%.

                                                  19
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

2.46   The Environment Agency required water companies to install Event Duration Monitors
       (EDM) on all storm overflows by December 2023. 18 The EDM records when a discharge
       to the environment starts and ends, but not the flow rate or volume. It does this,
       typically, by monitoring the flow level at the overflow weir. The number of spills and
       the total duration for which spills occur in the year, for each storm overflow, is
       reported annually to the Environment Agency and made publicly available.19 The
       number of spills is calculated according to the '12/24 spill count' method. This method
       counts multiple smaller spills that occur in quick succession as a single spill event, but
       longer duration spills as multiple spills. This ensures that the data properly reflects the
       significance of longer-duration spills, while recognising that multiple small events in
       close proximity may relate to waves of flow arriving at the works as rainfall travels over
       a catchment area.

2.47   As set out previously, WWTW have the option to spill to storm tanks when the
       permitted FFT level is reached or exceeded. To best establish therefore that a spill is
       permitted under the conditions of its permit, requires a flow monitor downstream of
       the point at which flows might spill (that is, to measure the flow going to treatment)
       and an EDM to record when a spill to the storm tank, or the environment for an inlet
       storm overflow, is occurring. With this instrumentation in place, for all the times a spill
       is indicated on the EDM, the flow meter must be reading a value equal to, or greater
       than, the FFT requirement.

2.48   Whilst the FFT requirement in permits is not new, the Environment Agency has more
       recently been working with water companies to further develop the permit conditions
       for FFT to provide additional assurance around the monitoring of FFT compliance (that
       is, the reporting requirements under the permit, rather than the requirement itself to
       meet FFT levels). For the purpose of monitoring compliance, the conditions stipulate
       that permit compliance can be considered to be achieved when 95% of the individual
       flow values exceed 92% of the overflow setting (that is, the FFT limit) when the works
       is discharging to the storm tanks, or to the environment if there are no storm tanks.
       This proxy is used for monitoring purposes in recognition of there being some margin
       of error (here, +/- 8%) in the accuracy of meter readings. Nevertheless, companies are
       expected to meet their FFT permit conditions all of the time.

2.49   Meeting this monitoring requirement necessitates the commissioning of
       instrumentation to continually monitor flows. The required instrumentation, and any
       associated civil engineering works, at many WWTW were included in the Water


18 With the vast majority of storm overflows covered by EDM by 2020. See:

https://environmentagency.blog.gov.uk/2021/03/31/event-duration-monitoring-lifting-the-lid-on-
storm-overflows/.
19
   The 12/24-hour spill count methodology starts counting when the first discharge occurs; any
discharges in the first 12-hour block are counted as one spill; any discharges in the next, and
subsequent 24-hour blocks are each counted as one additional spill per block and counting continues
until there is a 24-hour block with no discharge.

                                                  20
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

           Industry National Environment Programme (WINEP) for companies to deliver, and
           funded within the allowances companies are allowed to recover through customer bills
           following Ofwat's PR19 price review process. The investments were defined with
           reference to the WINEP driver codes given below and expected to be delivered on or
           before March 2025.

       •     U_MON3 – “Install EDM on WWTW overflows to storm tanks at those WWTW where
             we can’t use existing monitors to be confident that the permitted FFT setting is
             being complied with.”
       •     U_MON4 – “Install MCERTS flow monitoring as close to the overflow as practicable
             to record FFT at WWTW where the existing DWF MCERTS flow monitoring, or other
             installed flow monitoring, cannot be readily used to confirm the permitted FFT
             setting is being complied with when the overflow to storm tanks operates.”

2.50       As set out previously, the majority of WWTW have a TDV meter. These are typically at
           the point of final effluent discharge and not immediately downstream of any storm
           overflow weir to storm tanks or a storm overflow at a WWTW inlet. As such, they may
           not be used to fully evidence compliance with a FFT permit requirement but can give
           an indication of whether the WWTW is likely to be complying. This is because the flow
           pattern can be substantially altered by treatment processes between the storm
           overflow weir and the point of discharge.

2.51       Where existing flow meters were in place companies were funded at PR19 to
           investigate if these meters could be used for FFT compliance monitoring, under the
           driver code below. Where the meter could not be used, companies were expected to
           submit investment plans for funding suitable monitoring at the PR24 price review
           process.

       •     U_INV2 – “Investigation to confirm if any existing front end flow monitor or the
             back end MCERTS flow monitor can be used to measure pass forward flow to full
             treatment at a WWTW."

2.52       The roll-out of these meters will give companies and regulators greater transparency
           on the performance of WWTW and greater oversight on flow compliance. However, it is
           important to stress that, regardless of whether companies have or have not had
           access to data from flow meters, they have still had an obligation to ensure they were
           complying with requirements arising from legislation and their environmental permits
           with regards to flows and discharges, and the onus is on companies to ensure that
           they had systems and processes to enable them to do so.




                                                     21
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Monitoring of storm overflows

2.53   Water companies are expected to classify their storm overflows.20 There are three
       classifications; satisfactory, substandard and unsatisfactory. In summary, an
       unsatisfactory storm overflow is one that spills when it has not been raining, causes or
       significantly contributes to environmental harm or operates in breach of permit. A
       substandard storm overflow is one that has a satisfactory environmental impact but
       does not meet current engineering standards, for example with respect to screening
       requirements.

2.54   The Environment Agency can review permits or take enforcement action when a storm
       overflow becomes unsatisfactory. Where necessary, an improvement condition can be
       set to ensure appropriate standards are met. These storm overflows should be
       addressed as soon as practicable, normally within three years. The Environment
       Agency applies water quality design standards when it issues permits for all new,
       improved or altered storm overflows, that depend on the potential environmental
       impact of the discharge.

2.55   Companies are also required to address substandard storm overflows over the medium
       to long term through their routine maintenance and renewal activities. Companies are
       expected to proactively undertake activities that prevent a storm overflow becoming
       unsatisfactory.

2.56   A storm overflow can become unsatisfactory when new legal requirements come into
       effect which it does not meet. In these instances, companies, in collaboration with the
       Environment Agency, should develop a solution for inclusion in the WINEP. Ofwat
       allows water companies funding to deliver these solutions within the price review
       process.

2.57   The Environment Agency and water companies developed the Storm Overflow
       Assessment Framework (SOAF), 21 which was finalised in June 2018, to prioritise the
       investigation and remediation of those storm overflows spilling the most and
       contributing the most harm. It formed the basis for identifying storm overflow work
       programmes for inclusion in PR19 business plans – with investigations included within
       WINEP for PR19, and resulting remediation solutions intended to be included in either
       PR19 or PR24. The SOAF states that it is intended "to address the problems caused by
       discharges from storm overflows considered to operate at too high a frequency. The
       framework will ensure that the water industry is proactively monitoring and managing
       the performance of its overflows in light of the pressures of growth, urban creep and




20
   Environment Agency Guidance, Water companies: environmental permits for storm overflows and
emergency overflows, updated 13 September 2018.
21
   Environment Agency, Storm Overflow Assessment Framework. Version 1.6. June 2018.

                                                 22
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       changing rainfall patterns. It is also intended to demonstrate that sewerage systems
       are compliant with relevant legislation such as the UWWTR." 22

2.58   The SOAF sets out processes for investigation and remediation. It consists of five
       stages.

       Stage 1 - Identifies storm overflows that have exceeded spill frequency triggers 23 and
       assesses whether this is due to exceptional rainfall; due to maintenance issues; or due
       to insufficient hydraulic capacity. More specifically:
            • Exceptional rainfall – this does not refer to individual rainfall events, but
                rather the rainfall across the reporting year.
            • Asset maintenance 24 – this applies where the storm overflows and potentially
                parts of the upstream and downstream sewer network have not operated as
                designed/expected. Those storm overflows for which maintenance issues are
                identified as the cause of the high spill frequence are removed from the next
                stages of the SOAF assessment as these issues should instead be resolved
                through operational maintenance.
            • Hydraulic capacity - if the reason for a high spilling storm overflow is neither
                exceptional rainfall, nor asset maintenance, then it is classified under this
                category. This indicates there may be insufficient capacity (conveyance or
                storage) to cope with the sewage flow plus typical rainfall entering the
                network.

       Stage 2 - For the storm overflows where hydraulic incapacity is identified as the
       cause, the environmental impact of the discharges is quantified. This consists of two
       stages. Firstly, there is an aesthetic assessment, which considers amenity value,
       customer complaints and historical pollution incidents. Secondly an assessment of
       ecology is undertaken using invertebrate sampling. Where invertebrate sampling is
       not possible water quality is assessed through mathematical modelling.

       Stage 3 - The costs and benefits of improvement options for the storm overflow are
       determined. This identifies the environmental, social and economic benefits of
       overflow improvement to determine the most economically efficient improvement
       option.



22 SOAF, page 1, paragraph 4.
23
   Within the 2018 SOAF these investigation triggers are based on the number of years of EDM data
collected, more than 60 spills for one year of data; an average of more than 50 spills per year over two
years of data; and an average of more than 40 spills per year over three years of data. The Environment
Agency is in the process of updating the SOAF to use lower thresholds.
24
   The Environment Agency lists a number of different asset maintenance categories or "Performance"
reasons that companies can identify. These include: partial/no capacity due to blockage or restriction;
sewer collapse (partial/full); groundwater inundation; infiltration; asset power failure; pump
failure/issue; other maintenance/capital works; asset configuration (e.g. pumping station/rising
main/storm tanks); data collection – EDM non-representative location.

                                                   23
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       Stage 4 – A decision is made on whether an improvement option can be found where
       the costs are not disproportionate to the benefits, or, if not, the 'Do-nothing' is the
       preferred option.

       Stage 5 - Delivery of the most cost beneficial solution to reduce environmental impact
       and/or reduce the frequency of discharges.

2.59   Companies are required to submit annual returns to the Environment Agency, which
       include information on any action taken or planned for those storm overflows which
       are high spilling due to hydraulic capacity and the status and timeframe for those
       actions. This information typically indicates which stage of the SOAF investigation
       process the site has reached and, if appropriate, whether it is being investigated or
       already due to be improved as part of another programme such as WINEP.

2.60   The SOAF applies to storm overflows discharging to rivers. It does not apply to storm
       overflows discharging to lakes, estuaries or coastal waters. It also does not cover the
       requirements to meet other legal obligations relevant to storm overflows such as the
       Bathing Water Regulations 2013 and the Shellfish Water Protected Area Directions
       2016 (Shellfish Directions).

2.61   As a result of the above approach the SOAF can help companies to consider whether
       spills from their storm overflows are only occurring in exceptional circumstances
       subject to BTKNEEC. They should similarly consider this for storm overflows not subject
       to SOAF (that is, those discharging to waters other than rivers).



Regulatory developments relevant to storm overflows since the
establishment of the SOAF

2.62   The SOAF methodology, as well as the WINEP commitments referred to above,
       informed the approach water companies adopted to request funding during the PR19
       price review. As set out below, since PR19, further initiatives, policies and legal
       obligations have arisen with respect to the way the companies must or can address
       issues relating to the sufficient performance of their assets and the reduction of storm
       overflow spills.

2.63   Shortly before the start of the PR19 period,25 in December 2019, the UK Government's
       new Environment Bill was first announced in the Queen's Speech. Among other things,
       the Environment Bill was focused on the setting of long-term environmental targets for
       water and water resources management. The Storm Overflows Taskforce 26, an inter-

 1 April 2020-31 March 2025.
25

 The Storm Overflows Taskforce is a joint group which was established in August 2020 with
26

membership drawn from the water industry, environmental non-governmental organisations,


                                                 24
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       organisation water industry group, was formed in August 2020 to recommend actions
       to achieve the aim of eliminating harm from storm overflows in England.

2.64   In July 2020, the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), the
       Environment Agency, the Drinking Water Inspectorate, Ofwat and the Consumer
       Council for Water announced the Green Economic Recovery Programme (Green
       Recovery), aimed at accelerating and bringing forward planned investment, and
       implementing new innovative ideas to benefit customers and the environment. 27 The
       final decisions regarding the proposals submitted by companies were published in July
       2021, making available additional funding for infrastructure improvements and
       projects related to storm overflow spill reduction.

2.65   In March 2021, the 2020 EDM return data showing the number and duration of spills
       from storm overflows was published by the Environment Agency for the first time. As
       the installation of EDMs was becoming more widespread, the data highlighted a
       greater than expected scale of storm overflow discharges into watercourses to both
       the industry and the general public. The EDM return data has since been published
       annually.

2.66   Following the publication of the EDM return data, we wrote to water companies in June
       2021 regarding the growing concern about their use of storm overflows. We told
       companies that Ofwat expects them and their boards to have a strong understanding
       and oversight of their duties and storm overflow assets and performance.

2.67   In July 2021, Defra consulted on the new Strategic Policy Statement (policy
       statement) for Ofwat, which was published in its final form in February 2022. The
       policy statement made clear that water companies must take steps to significantly
       reduce storm overflows and that Ofwat should drive companies to be more ambitious
       in their actions to protect and enhance the environment and challenge them to meet
       the requirements of all environmental legislation. Further to the publication of the
       policy statement, in October 2021, the UK Government introduced amendments to the
       Environment Bill to include a duty for companies to ensure that they secure a
       progressive reduction in the adverse impacts of discharges from storm overflows. The
       Environment Act 2021 received royal assent in November 2021.

2.68   In March 2022, we wrote to the companies to remind them of the new duty under the
       Environment Act 2021 to reduce harm from storm overflows, and the UK Government's
       expectations described in its policy statement for Ofwat. We asked companies in
       England to set out their plans to reduce harm to rivers and made clear that they 'must



government representatives and regulators. The taskforce is chaired by Defra and its objective is to
recommend actions to achieve the long-term aim of eliminating harm from storm overflows in
England.
27 Ofwat, Green recovery.


                                                  25
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

       act now' as there was nothing in the regulatory regime that prevented them from
       tackling the issues immediately.

2.69   In August 2022, the UK Government published its Storm Overflows Discharge
       Reduction Plan (SODRP). The development of the SODRP commenced with the
       publication of the Storm Overflows Evidence Project in November 2021. This was
       prepared to provide the Storm Overflows Taskforce with evidence regarding the extent
       of harm that storm overflow discharges cause inland rivers and potential solutions.
       The SODRP introduced specific, time-bound targets for companies to deliver as a
       minimum in relation to storm overflows, including, amongst others, a headline target
       that storm overflows will not be permitted to discharge above an average of 10 rainfall
       events per year by 2050.

2.70   In October 2022, Defra commenced the Accelerated Infrastructure Delivery Project by
       inviting water companies to propose accelerated infrastructure delivery schemes for
       2023-24 and 2024-25. 28 Final decisions on the companies' proposals were published by
       Ofwat in June 2023. All wastewater companies submitted proposals, and the projects
       for which funding was agreed included those aimed at addressing storm overflow
       spills.

2.71   Most recently, our methodology for the PR24 price review was finalised in December
       2022, with the draft version published and publicly consulted on between July and
       September 2022. The methodology again set out our expectations of water companies
       in light of the UK Government's policy statement and their statutory duties under
       section 94 WIA91 and Regulation 4 UWWTR, which we confirmed they had always had
       to comply with.



The relevant legislative framework


Introduction

2.72   The previous subsections provided details on the regulatory framework and context to
       our investigation. The following subsections describe the legal provisions at the centre
       of our investigation. As further detailed below, these are: section 94 WIA91 in general;
       Regulation 4(2) and 4(4) UWWTR, which are enforceable through their inclusion in
       section 94(1)(a) and (1)(b) WIA91 respectively; and Condition P12 of a water company's
       licence. These are separate legal provisions with specific requirements but there is a
       degree of overlap between the three in how they apply to the findings of our
       investigation.



28 Ofwat, Accelerated Infrastructure Delivery Project.


                                                   26
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

2.73      The following subsections also describe the practical implications of these provisions
          for how the companies should have been operating their businesses and how we
          expect companies to act in the future.



General duty under section 94 WIA91

2.74      Under section 94(1) WIA91, wastewater companies have a general duty to:

        (a) provide, improve, and extend such a system of public sewers (whether inside their
            area or elsewhere) and so to cleanse and maintain those sewers, and any lateral
            drains which belong to or vest in the undertakers, as to ensure that that area is and
            continues to be effectually drained; and

        (b) make provision for the emptying of those sewers and such further provision
            (whether inside their area or elsewhere) as is necessary from time to time for
            effectually dealing, by means of sewerage disposal works or otherwise, with the
            contents of those sewers.

2.75      As further detailed below, the duty imposed on every wastewater company by section
          94 WIA91 is supplemented by the UWWTR, which obliges companies to meet certain
          minimum standards for WWTW and collecting systems. Any contravention of
          Regulation 4 UWWTR is treated, for the purposes of the WIA91, as a breach of section
          94. 29

Duties under Regulation 4 UWWTR

2.76      The permit regime described in paragraphs 2.15 to 2.61 above is aimed at ensuring
          that wastewater assets are operating within the parameters of the UWWTR in certain
          respects specified in Regulation 6(2). In addition, companies remain directly subject
          to the obligations imposed by Regulation 4 UWWTR, in relation to which Ofwat is the
          enforcing authority. The aim of the UWWTR is to protect human health and the water
          environment from being damaged by untreated urban wastewater and certain
          industrial discharges. Regulation 4 UWWTR sets out specific requirements for the
          provision, maintenance and operation of WWTW and the sewerage systems which feed
          into them, in order to ensure a minimum standard of environmental performance that
          supports that aim.

Regulations 4(4) and 5 UWWTR

2.77      Regulation 4(4) UWWTR supplements a wastewater company's general duty under
          section 94(1)(b) WIA91 to effectually deal with the contents of its sewers (see more


29
     Regulation 4(1) UWWTR.

                                                    27
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       below). It relates primarily to the manner in which companies operate each of their
       WWTW. It provides:

       "The duty imposed by [section 94(1)(b)] shall include a duty to ensure that
       urban waste water entering collecting systems is, before discharge, subject to
       treatment provided in accordance with regulation 5, and to ensure that—

       (a)   plants built in order to comply with that regulation are designed (account
             being taken of seasonal variations of the load), constructed, operated and
             maintained to ensure sufficient performance under all normal local
             climatic conditions;

       (b)   treated waste water and sludge arising from waste water treatment are
             reused whenever appropriate; and

       (c)   disposal routes for treated waste water and sludge minimise the adverse
             effects on the environment."

2.78   Regulation 5 UWWTR sets minimum treatment requirements according to the size of
       population served by the relevant WWTW. 30

Regulation 4(2) and Schedule 2 UWWTR

2.79   Regulation 4(2) UWWTR supplements a wastewater company's general duty under
       section 94(1)(a) WIA91 to provide and maintain a system of sewers, that is its sewerage
       network (collecting systems). Regulation 4(2) UWWTR provides:

       "Subject to paragraph (3) below,[31] the duty imposed by subsection (1)(a) of the
       said section 94 shall include a duty to ensure that collecting systems which
       satisfy the requirements of Schedule 2 are provided—

       (a) where the urban waste water discharges into receiving waters which are a
           sensitive area, by 31st December 1998 for every agglomeration with a
           population equivalent of more than 10,000; and

       (b) without prejudice to sub-paragraph (a) above—


30
   Regulation 5(1) sets out the dates by which secondary treatment is to be provided depending on the
relevant agglomerations' population equivalent and type of receiving waterbody. Regulation 5(7)
explains that, notwithstanding the above, appropriate treatment should be provided by 31 December
2005 with respect to agglomerations with the population equivalent of less than 2,000/10,000 (for
discharges to freshwaters and estuaries and coastal waters respectively).
31 Regulation 4(3) UWWTR allows the Environment Agency and the Secretary of State to exempt

specific "agglomerations" from the requirement to have a collecting system in limited circumstances.
Paragraph (3) is not relevant to this investigation.

                                                 28
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

            (i) by 31st December 2000 for every agglomeration with a population
                equivalent of more than 15,000; and

            (ii) by 31st December 2005 for every agglomeration with a population
                 equivalent of between 2,000 and 15,000." 32

2.80   Schedule 2 UWWTR provides:

       "1. Collecting systems shall take into account waste water treatment
           requirements.

       2.   The design, construction and maintenance of collecting systems shall be
            undertaken in accordance with the best technical knowledge not entailing
            excessive costs, notably regarding—

            (a) volume and characteristics of urban waste water;

            (b) prevention of leaks; and

            (c) limitation of pollution of receiving waters due to storm water
                overflows."

2.81   The requirement at paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 UWWTR for the design, construction,
       operation and maintenance of collecting systems to be carried out according to the
       best technical knowledge available not entailing excessive costs, notably
       regarding the matters in (a) to (c), is referred to as the BTKNEEC requirement or
       'BTKNEEC test'.



Further guidance on Regulation 4 UWWTR from case law

2.82   In Commission v United Kingdom, 33 the Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ)
       provided further context and detail on the interpretation of the Urban Waste Water
       Treatment Directive (the Directive).34 The UWWTR is the domestic equivalent of the
       Directive in England and Wales. 35 In its judgment, the ECJ examined the provisions of
       the Directive but, in the interest of clarity, equivalent provisions of the UWWTR are
       referred to below instead.




32
   This investigation, therefore, focuses on those collecting systems which are provided for
agglomerations with a population equivalent of at least 2,000.
33 ECJ judgment of 18 October 2012 in Case C-301/10 EU Commission v UK.
34
   Council Directive 91/271/EEC concerning waste water treatment, adopted on 21 May 1991.
35
   The Directive is implemented in England and Wales by the UWWTR.

                                                   29
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

2.83   The ECJ explained that to meet the objective of protecting the environment the
       concept of ‘sufficient performance’ referred to in Regulation 4(4) UWWTR (which
       applies to WWTW) must be understood to mean that under usual climatic conditions,
       and accounting for seasonal variations, all urban wastewater must be collected and
       treated. It clarified that non-compliance with the requirements of Regulation 4(4) in
       respect of the WWTW and Regulation 4(2) in respect of collecting systems could only
       be tolerated in exceptional or unforeseeable circumstances, such as 'unusually heavy
       rainfall'. The term 'unusual' is of key importance and means, again, that failure to
       collect or treat wastewater should not occur in normal circumstances.

2.84   The ECJ noted that the UWWTR do not prescribe a numerical spill threshold that would
       amount to a contravention. Accordingly, any discharge of untreated urban wastewater
       into the environment has the potential to constitute a breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR.
       From a practical perspective, Advocate General Mengozzi 36 noted in his Opinion on the
       case that the Commission had “on several occasions […] both during the pre-litigation
       phase and before the Court” indicated that “as a rule, exceeding the limit of 20
       overflows a year would be a cause for concern, suggesting a possible failure to fulfil
       obligations”. 37 While reiterating that “the Court cannot lay down numerical values
       which the legislature considered it appropriate to avoid”,38 he nevertheless expressed
       the opinion that “it may be entirely reasonable for the Commission to draw up
       quantitative guidelines on which to base its own monitoring activity”, 39 and that
       “[d]espite all its limitations and without prejudice to the need for a case-by-case
       assessment, a numerical criterion of that nature may be reasonable and
       acceptable.” 40

2.85   Within the UWWTR, the concept of BTKNEEC is only referred to expressly in relation to
       collecting systems (Regulation 4(2) UWWTR and paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 UWWTR).
       The ECJ clarified that BTKNEEC is also inherent in all of the UWWTR provisions which
       intend to secure the objective of protecting the environment. It therefore extends to
       WWTW in the context of controlling adverse environmental impacts arising from any
       discharges of untreated wastewater. BTKNEEC should be seen as a concept that
       enables compliance with the duties under the UWWTR without imposing unachievable
       obligations that could only be fulfilled at a disproportionate cost.

2.86   In Commission v United Kingdom, the ECJ held that: “[s]hould it prove impossible or
       very difficult to collect and treat all the waste water, it will be for the Member State
       concerned to demonstrate that the conditions for applying the concept of BTKNEEC are


36 Advocate Generals are advisors to the ECJ who assist the court by writing impartial and independent

opinions on cases which the judges consider before giving judgment.
37
   See paragraph 48 of the opinion of Advocate General Mengozzi dated 26 January 2012 in Case C-
301/10 EU Commission v UK.
38
   Opinion of Advocate General Mengozzi dated 26 January 2012 in Case C-301/10 EU Commission v UK
39
   Opinion of Advocate General Mengozzi dated 26 January 2012 in Case C-301/10 EU Commission v UK
40
   Opinion of Advocate General Mengozzi dated 26 January 2012 in Case C-301/10 EU Commission v UK

                                                  30
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       met.” 41 It summarised the approach it should take in considering whether the UK was
       in compliance with the Directive as follows: "For the purpose of examining the present
       action, the Court must, first of all, examine whether the discharges from the collecting
       systems or the treatment plants of the various agglomerations in the United Kingdom
       are due to circumstances of an exceptional nature, and then, if that is not the case,
       establish whether the United Kingdom has been able to demonstrate that the
       conditions for applying the concept of BTKNEEC were met." 42

2.87   Advocate General Mengozzi said in his Opinion in the same case that "[BTKNEEC]
       constitutes a mechanism which operates by way of exception and which may not be
       employed in order to undermine the principle (…) that, as a rule, the collection and
       treatment processes must cover all waste water” 43 and "there must be a
       comprehensive assessment of the circumstances of each case". 44

2.88   That does not mean that the concept of BTKNEEC can only be engaged ‘exceptionally’,
       in the sense of ‘rarely’: whether or not it is engaged will depend on the facts of each
       case. 45 But it does mean that the concept must be invoked and justified as a departure
       from the default position, and that disproportionate costs under BTNKEEC cannot be
       assumed or simply asserted without evidence; they must be proven by the party
       seeking to rely on that conclusion as a reason why spilling outside exceptional
       circumstances does not amount to a breach of the UWWTR.



Requirements under Licence Condition P

2.89   Licence Condition P 46 of water and wastewater companies' instrument of appointment
       (that is, their licence) requires that the companies have adequate resources in place
       to fulfil their regulated activities, both currently and for the foreseeable future. It also
       sets out certain requirements of companies' boards.

2.90   It requires that, to enable it to carry out the regulated activities (including to meet its
       legal and regulatory obligations such as its duties under the UWWTR and section 94

41
   ECJ judgment of 18 October 2012 in Case C-301/10 EU Commission v UK, paragraph 68.
42
   ECJ judgment of 18 October 2012 in Case C-301/10 EU Commission v UK, paragraph 73.
43 See paragraph 171 of the opinion of Advocate General Mengozzi dated 26 January 2012. The opinion

can be accessed here:
https://curia.europa.eu/juris/document/document.jsf;jsessionid=83AD395830D912A97216E00FF3E8642
3?text=&docid=118501&pageIndex=0&doclang=en&mode=lst&dir=&occ=first&part=1&cid=5762660.
44
   Opinion of Advocate General Mengozzi dated 26 January 2012 in Case C-301/10 EU Commission v UK,
paragraph 172.
45
   See the High Court's judgment of 15 September 2023 in Cases No: CO/4438/2022 and CO/4445/2022
R(Wildfish), R(Marine Conservation Society and others) v Secretary of State for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs [2023] EHWC 2285 (Admin). (Wildfish case). The judgment can be accessed here:
https://www.judiciary.uk/judgments/wildfish-conservation-and-marine-conservation-society-v-
secretary-of-state-for-environment-food-and-rural-affairs-and-the-environment-agency/
46
   Please note that the paragraph numbering in Condition P may vary between licensees.

                                                 31
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

          WIA91), a company must, at all times, act in a manner which is best calculated to
          ensure that it has in place adequate financial resources and facilities, management
          resources and systems of planning and internal control.47 This obligation is a particular
          focus of this investigation. In order to be able to fulfil this obligation, a company would
          reasonably need to have:

         (i)   a robust understanding of the regulated activity it is intended to deliver;
         (ii)  suitable operational practices to enable that activity to be carried out and
               monitored; and
         (iii) suitable processes of governance control and assurance to scrutinise and
               challenge delivery performance and reporting.

2.91      In addition to this obligation, each year a company is required to submit a ring-
          fencing certificate to Ofwat 48 to confirm that, among other things, in the opinion of its
          board, it will have sufficient financial and management resources and systems of
          planning and internal control to enable it to carry out its regulated activities for at
          least the next 12-month period. Where a company's board becomes aware of any
          circumstances that would mean it could no longer provide a ring-fencing certificate, it
          must inform Ofwat in writing. 49

2.92      A company is also required by Licence Condition P to meet the Board Leadership,
          Transparency and Governance objectives to ensure that:

         (a) the company has an effective board with full responsibility for all aspects of the
             company's business for the long term;

         (b) the board establishes the company's purpose, strategy and values, and is satisfied
             that these and its culture reflect the needs of all those it serves;

         (c) the board's leadership and approach to transparency and governance engenders
             trust in the company and ensures accountability for its actions; and

         (d) the board and its committees are competent, well run, and have sufficient
             independent membership, ensuring they can make high quality decisions that
             address diverse customer and stakeholder needs. 50




47
     Licence Condition P12.
48 Licence Condition P30.
49
     Licence Condition P32.
50
     Licence Condition P3.

                                                     32
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Practical implications of the legal framework for water
companies' operations and our approach to our investigation

2.93   The subsection below sets out some of the practical implications of the legal
       obligations set out above and what might reasonably be expected of a company to
       ensure that it is in compliance. It explains the approach we have taken to assessing
       the conduct under investigation. For the avoidance of doubt, the below is not an
       exhaustive discussion of all issues relevant to water companies' duties.

2.94   There is a considerable overlap between the requirements of Regulation 4(2) and 4(4)
       UWWTR, section 94 WIA91 and Licence Condition P12. We have therefore sought to
       indicate how each of the provisions may be relevant to the issues we discuss from our
       investigation.

2.95   What follows are practical implications of the various legal requirements and the
       approach that companies should be taking to compliance. These are relevant for our
       investigation's findings. How we have assessed Thames Water's conduct for the
       purpose of considering penalties in relation to breaches of these obligations is
       explained separately in Section 6.

Compliance with Regulation 4 UWWTR

2.96   Regulation 4(2) and 4(4) UWWTR require companies to "ensure" that their collecting
       systems and WWTW are providing sufficient performance, subject to the BTKNEEC test,
       which cannot be assumed or asserted but must be evidenced. This means that a
       company should not have any assets which do not meet this standard, and also that it
       should take active steps where appropriate to satisfy itself that its assets are
       compliant.

2.97   Ensuring that its assets are compliant means that a company should take ownership of
       monitoring its obligations under Regulation 4 UWWTR and adopt an inquisitive stance
       with respect to the performance of its assets. Where it becomes aware of indicators
       that an asset may not be performing sufficiently, for instance because spill data
       suggests that the asset is spilling outside of exceptional circumstances, Regulation 4
       requires the company to actively consider and investigate potential issues and not
       simply assume that the asset is compliant until proven otherwise. If there is spilling
       outside of exceptional circumstances, the ECJ has made clear that a BTKNEEC
       exception cannot be relied upon unless it has been made out in the specific case.

2.98   In our investigation we have considered both the extent to which the company's
       assets comply with the requirements of Regulation 4 UWWTR (that is, in terms of
       whether they are providing sufficient performance), and the extent to which the
       company has met its obligation under Regulation 4 to ensure that its assets continue



                                                 33
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       to meet the relevant standards (that is, how it has gone about ensuring that they
       provide sufficient performance).




Spill prevention and mitigation

2.99   A company must ensure that wastewater flows to the environment (either directly or
       via storm tanks) which have not been fully treated only occur in exceptional or
       unforeseeable circumstances. Where it appears to a company that an asset may be
       spilling outside of exceptional circumstances, for instance because of the frequency of
       spills, the company should investigate the circumstances of the spill(s). If the
       discharges cannot be explained by exceptional circumstances (of whatever nature),
       the company must then mitigate any harm to the environment resulting from them to
       the extent that there is a remedy available which meets the BTKNEEC test. That
       remedy may be a change to operational processes or maintenance repairs (we note
       that under the SOAF, companies are required to resolve any operational or
       maintenance issues identified at Stage 1), or it could require physical works to change
       the capacity of the asset.

2.100 Non-compliance with these requirements might amount to a breach of Regulation 4(2)
      or 4(4) UWWTR (depending on whether the source of the discharge was the network or
      a WWTW), and consequently of section 94 WIA91. This non-compliance with Regulation
      4 is also interrelated with the general duty under section 94 WIA91 to provide and
      effectually deal with the contents of sewers and obligations as to the adequacy of a
      company's resources and systems of planning and internal control, and may be the
      result of shortcomings in these processes. A company in breach of Regulation 4
      UWWTR might therefore also be in breach of the broader duties under section 94
      WIA91 and Condition P. When assessing its compliance, a company should consider a
      number of factors, in particular the ones we identify below. These have been key
      considerations in our investigation.

2.101 The starting point to our assessment of compliance with Regulation 4 UWWTR is that
      all urban wastewater must be collected and treated under usual circumstances (in
      particular, in usual local climatic conditions). The circumstances in which spills might
      be tolerated at the first stage of the analysis are only truly unforeseeable or
      exceptional events, rather than routine departures from the norm such as seasonal
      heavy rainfall, seasonal fluctuations in the non-residential and/or tourist populations,
      or seasonal changes in local economic activity.

2.102 Spill performance of a WWTW or network asset is an important factor in assessing
      compliance. We consider that companies should treat 20 spills per year as a material

                                                 34
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       indicator of a breach which requires further investigation. This is equivalent to
       approximately one spill every two and a half weeks, which we consider is reasonably
       construed as routine spilling (that is, non-exceptional). Although this is not a binding
       threshold for compliance, as previously explained, we note that this threshold has
       been a rule of thumb used by the European Commission. Any number of spills below 20
       per year may still amount to a breach, in particular where there is an indication or
       evidence of related environmental harm for which there is an available BTKNEEC
       remedy. It is also possible that an asset spilling more than 20 times per year could, on
       investigation, be found to be compliant, for example because of exceptional
       circumstances or because of the application of the BTKNEEC test. Each potential
       breach must be assessed on a case-by-case basis.

2.103 Therefore, as a minimum, if an asset spills 20 or more times per year, in accordance
      with a company's obligation under Regulation 4 UWWTR to "ensure" asset compliance,
      we expect a company to further assess that asset's compliance with Regulation 4
      UWWTR. This would involve: (i) identifying the cause of and circumstances relevant to
      the spills (and whether or not the spills have in fact occurred due to exceptional
      circumstances); and (ii) determining their impact on the environment and whether
      there are improvements consistent with BTKNEEC that would reduce or remove any
      harm (which should then be implemented) or whether it would be disproportionately
      costly to do so. Where a company has been unable to provide evidence showing that
      there have been exceptional circumstances, no environmental harm or a BTKNEEC
      exception in relation to storm overflows having 20 or more spills a year, there is a
      strong likelihood that it is operating in breach of Regulation 4(2) or Regulation 4(4) in
      relation to collecting systems and WWTW respectively. In those circumstances, we
      would also consider that the company has failed in its overarching obligation to ensure
      that its assets are operating in compliance with Regulation 4(2) UWWTR.

2.104 We consider that storm overflows that are discharging 20 times or more where there is
      no evidence of exceptional circumstances and there is a BTKNEEC solution for any
      environmental harm which has not been implemented are clearly in breach of
      Regulation 4(2) UWWTR or Regulation 4(4) UWWTR. Similarly, we will consider the
      company to be in breach where it has identified that the discharges are caused by
      operational or maintenance repair issues, rather than hydraulic capacity issues, but
      these have not been resolved.

2.105 Further, reflecting paragraph 2.96 and 2.97 above, if a company cannot provide
      evidence that it has investigated apparent routine discharges as identified through
      spill data and taken appropriate remedial action where there were compliance issues
      in a timely way, or that it is now in the process of investigating such discharges with a
      view to ensuring compliance with Regulation 4 UWWTR, we will consider that company
      to have breached or to be in breach (respectively) of its obligations to ensure asset
      compliance under Regulation 4 UWWTR.



                                                 35
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

2.106 Other factors which are strongly indicative of a breach include: dry day spills; spills
      constituting Category 1 or 2 pollution incidents; where there was more than one
      discharge from an emergency overflow per year; assets contributing to the failure of a
      water body to meet legal obligations, such as the protection of bathing waters,
      shellfish waters and other designations such as RAMSAR 51 or SSSI 52; and EDMs failing
      to record data for at least 90% of any 12-month period. We have taken these factors
      into account in our assessment of compliance because, without reasonable
      explanation, they are inconsistent with the company actively seeking to ensure that its
      assets are operating in compliance with Regulation 4(2) UWWTR. If any of these
      occurrences are recorded, we would expect a company to conduct further
      investigation into the relevant asset's compliance and in the absence of evidence that
      there have been exceptional circumstances, no environmental harm or a BTKNEEC
      exception, we may find that there was a breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR.

2.107 It is unlikely that the company is meeting its duties under Regulation 4 UWWTR, as
      well as under section 94 WIA91 more generally or Condition P12, if discharges of
      untreated urban wastewater from its WWTW or network occur regularly.



Environmental permit compliance

2.108 All substantiated breaches of environmental permit conditions are subject to
      discretionary action in accordance with the Environment Agency's enforcement and
      sanctions policy.53 The Environment Agency is required to set permits with a view to
      securing compliance with the UWWTR, but permits are set at a point in time, while the
      circumstances applicable to an asset and its performance can change over time.
      Whilst the Environment Agency is the responsible authority in England for issuing,
      monitoring and enforcing compliance with environmental permits, in which Ofwat
      does not have a role, companies remain directly subject to the underlying obligations
      of the UWWTR.

2.109 The indication of potential compliance or non-compliance with a permit is one of the
      evidentiary factors in our assessment of whether a company is meeting the duties
      Ofwat is responsible for enforcing under section 94, Regulation 4 UWWTR and Licence
      Condition P12. As further detailed below, potential failure to comply with a permit
      might be an indication of a breach of the sufficient performance requirement under
      Regulation 4 UWWTR and, by extension, of section 94 WIA91. If it is a symptom of


51 Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. These are wetlands of international importance that have been

designated under the criteria of the convention for containing representative, rare or unique wetland
types or for their importance in conserving biological diversity.
52
   Sites of Special Scientific Interest are areas of land and water designated under the Wildlife and
Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) and typically support many characteristic, rare and endangered
species, habitats and natural features.
53 Environment Agency enforcement and sanctions policy, updated 11 December 2023.


                                                  36
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       broader systemic failures, such as a company's inadequate understanding, planning,
       resources and systems, a company might also be in breach of its broader duties under
       section 94 WIA91 and Condition P requirements. These breaches may occur, however,
       even in the circumstances where a company is in compliance with its environmental
       permits, as explained further below.

2.110 Potential non-compliance with the conditions in an environmental permit is a strong
      factor indicating that duties under Regulation 4 UWWTR are not being met. It may
      point to the asset no longer having the capacity to meet sufficient performance for its
      catchment, or to inadequate operation or maintenance of the asset, such that
      sufficient performance, although theoretically achievable from the asset's design and
      construction, is not being achieved in practice. This is particularly the case with
      evidence that a WWTW is not meeting the DWF and FFT requirements in its permit
      before discharging untreated flows.

2.111 As explained above, SPS or WWTW may have emergency overflows. 54 These overflows
      can be used when a function failure occurs for reasons beyond the control of the
      operator. Permit conditions attached to emergency overflows are necessarily strict,
      particularly so when emergency overflows are connected to foul water only assets.
      Emergency overflows are normally different from storm overflows and should not be
      used for discharges resulting from heavy rainfall or storm conditions. If these
      emergency overflows do not operate as intended, and in particular where spills are
      recorded outside of the limited circumstances in which these overflows are meant to
      be used, this might constitute a breach of Regulation 4(4) or Regulation 4(2) UWWTR
      (depending on where the emergency overflow is located).

2.112 Some permits stipulate the minimum volume that storm tanks should be able to hold.
      In addition, the Environment Agency's asset standards require that storm tanks have
      the capacity equivalent to two hours at peak flow (or six hours of DWF). If a storm
      tank's capacity is below these requirements and/or spills from storm tanks occur, a
      company might not be meeting the sufficient performance standard, in breach of
      Regulation 4(4) UWWTR.

2.113 It is illegal for companies to discharge into surface waters without a permit. The
      existence and operation of significant numbers of storm overflows operating without
      environmental permits, particularly where the company was previously unaware of the
      existence of the overflow on its own network, itself might suggest that the network in
      question has not been constructed or maintained in accordance with the BTKNEEC
      standard to ensure limitation of pollution from storm overflows and that the company
      has not ensured that the asset is performing to the requirements of Regulation 4
      UWWTR. This is especially the case where these storm overflows are not being

54 The Environment Agency will normally permit emergency overflows at SPS on the network up to and

including the WWTW inlet – Environment Agency Guidance, Water companies: environment permits for
storm overflows and emergency overflows, updated 13 September 2018.

                                                 37
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       monitored, which would indicate that a company might not be aware of how and when
       they are in operation and, therefore, might be unable to take any remedial action if it
       is required. Where there is a prevalence of unpermitted storm overflows on the
       network it is therefore likely that the company is in breach of Regulation 4(2).

2.114 A company may comply with its environmental permit but may still be in breach of
      duties Ofwat is responsible for enforcing. For instance, certain indicators, such as
      increased spill levels, may suggest that the sewerage asset in question and therefore
      the conditions in the relevant permit relating to it no longer ensure its sufficient
      performance. This might be, for example, because the demand characteristics of the
      catchment have changed since the asset and associated permit were put in place. It is
      a company's responsibility to ensure compliance with its obligations under the UWWTR
      and, where necessary, it should liaise with the Environment Agency regarding its
      assets and associated permit conditions to achieve this.

2.115 Following review of the relevant evidence, we will find a company in breach of
      Regulation 4 UWWTR 55 if it ignores certain relevant indicators and warning signs that
      suggest an asset is at risk of operating outside of permit conditions in the future or
      that it has ceased to perform sufficiently as required under the UWWTR, even though
      it remains compliant with its permit. This is because a company may have failed to
      "ensure" that its assets are operating to the requirements of Regulation 4 UWWTR. A
      company must have effective means to monitor its compliance with the permits and
      Regulation 4 UWWTR, including sufficient and accurate site operating data and
      insights. The fact that a WWTW is 'capable' of meeting its permit conditions (that is,
      has the required capacity) is not enough and a company should ensure there is
      nothing in the design or configuration of the WWTW, or the operation or maintenance
      of the asset, that impedes sufficient performance. Key examples we have identified of
      issues that companies should be monitoring are as follows:

     (i)     DWF performance - WWTW permits set out DWF limits. As mentioned at
             paragraphs 2.20, 2.21 and 2.45 above, Q90 is used by the Environment Agency to
             assess compliance with permits – a WWTW will typically breach its DWF condition
             where it fails to meet Q90 at least three times in a five-year period. However,
             where a WWTW fails to meet its Q80 metric or where it fails to meet Q90 fewer
             than three times in five years, this may indicate that the WWTW is or will likely
             not be designed, constructed, operated and/or maintained in order to ensure
             sufficient performance and is at risk of breaching its Q90 permit condition and of
             future spills. It is self-evident that sites that are operating with little or no
             headroom are at greater risk of discharging, with a consequent increased risk of
             causing environmental harm. We accept that exceptional weather conditions
             may temporarily result in high infiltration rates, meaning that it may not be

55
  A breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR is itself is a breach of section 94 WIA91 (as well as additional
aspects of section 94 WIA91 and/or Condition P12 where the evidence shows more systemic issues or
inadequate monitoring).

                                                 38
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

              possible for a WWTW to achieve the Q80 metric at all times, but this occurrence
              may be tolerated only if it is of short duration and is exceptional.56 We expect
              companies to investigate WWTW that fail to achieve Q80 to understand why this
              is the case and whether it is suggestive of the existence of current or likely
              future non-compliance.

      (ii)    FFT performance - As set out in paragraph 2.48 above it is recognised that flow
              meters have a margin of error of plus or minus 8% when measuring the level of
              flow. As a result, to ensure that it only enforces in relation to WWTW that are
              definitely breaching their FFT permit requirements, the Environment Agency has
              a discretion to take action where flows are measured below 92% of the FFT
              threshold. However, the margin of error of the flow meters means that even a
              recording of 107% of the FFT requirement may actually be below the permit
              requirement if the monitoring equipment is overstating the level of flow.
              Companies should also recognise the implications of this potential margin of
              error when monitoring FFT and assessing whether or not a WWTW is or risks
              being non-compliant with Regulation 4(4) UWWTR, by satisfying themselves that
              those assets that are not meeting 108% of their permitted FFT level are
              compliant with Regulation 4 UWWTR.

2.116 By way of an overview of the above, and as an illustrative example, a reasonable
      company would ensure a WWTW is designed and constructed to meet the flows
      received from its catchment under the range of typical local weather conditions. It
      would also be able to demonstrate that it is keeping the capacity of that WWTW under
      review, taking appropriate action to ensure that the WWTW continues to provide
      sufficient performance despite changes in the catchment and/or local weather
      conditions (including, where necessary expanding treatment capacity at the WWTW
      and, in a proactive and timely fashion, engaging with the Environment Agency to
      request that changes are made to the relevant permits), and ensuring that the day-to-
      day operation and maintenance of WWTW enable it to operate to its intended capacity.



BTKNEEC standard

2.117 Where spills are not due to exceptional circumstances companies must ensure that
      they satisfy the BTKNEEC requirement in order to comply with Regulation 4(2) and
      Regulation 4(4). This is a strict standard that requires the company to apply, on an
      ongoing basis, the best technical knowledge to all aspects of its WWTW and networks.




56
  Where infiltration is not of short duration, companies should either reduce infiltration levels or apply
for a higher DWF permit level.

                                                    39
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

2.118 When considering compliance with the BTKNEEC standard, a reasonable company
      would ensure that:

     (i)     The full range of remedial options has been assessed, including steps outside
             the immediate catchment and on a system-wide basis where options may
             resolve multiple concerns that individually may have been prohibitively costly to
             address, and less costly steps which, while they may not completely resolve or
             remedy the environmental harm, can decrease or mitigate it.

     (ii)    In quantifying environmental harm, all relevant issues are considered, including
             those related to public health and amenity, as well as impacts on plant health
             and biodiversity.

     (iii)   Account is taken of the latest technological advances.



Relevance of SOAF evidence

2.119 As explained in paragraph 2.57 above, water companies and the Environment Agency
      have developed the SOAF which sets out a staged approach to prioritise the
      investigation and remedy of high spilling storm overflows to enable their compliance
      with the UWWTR. This has been and continues to be an important means by which
      companies assess their compliance with the UWWTR. However, SOAF should not be
      the only way companies are engaging in ensuring that they are meeting the
      requirements of Regulation 4 UWWTR, and other operational and planning practices
      they have should also put their mind to ensuring compliance. As set out above there
      are a range of indicators that should prompt companies as a matter of course to
      consider whether their compliance is at risk on a routine basis.

2.120 In our investigation, we have taken account of the investigations that companies have
      conducted based on the evidence they have provided to us in relation to their SOAF (or
      similar) assessments of storm overflows. While this is subject to our consideration of
      all circumstances that are relevant to each potential breach, in general where a
      company:

     (i)     Has completed a timely investigation (under the SOAF or similar) and found no
             BTKNEEC solution or has a timely investigation underway and is therefore in the
             process of establishing the reason for the discharge, whether there is adverse
             environmental impact and/or a BTKNEEC solution with respect to a site, we do
             not consider such sites to be in breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR.

     (ii)    Has undertaken a Stage 1 SOAF assessment (or equivalent) and found that high
             spills over the SOAF thresholds are attributable to operational and maintenance
             issues, and has taken steps to reduce the spills such that the site is only spilling

                                                 40
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

              in exceptional circumstances (which, as set out above, will ordinarily mean that
              there are fewer than 20 spills a year), we consider this to have been a past
              breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR. Where a company has not taken steps to reduce
              the spills such that the site is only spilling in exceptional circumstances, we
              consider this to be an ongoing breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR. As explained
              above, any sites classified as spilling because of operational maintenance issues
              at Stage 1 are removed from the SOAF process and the companies are expected
              to address these issues.

      (iii)   Does not have an investigation in progress in relation to a site with spill levels of
              20 spills or more per year, (beyond having simply carried out a Stage 1 root cause
              assessment), we consider that site to be in breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR. In
              addition, the absence of a timely investigation is likely to constitute a breach of
              Condition P12. 57

      (iv)    Did not progress an investigation in a timely manner when spill levels of 20 spills
              or more were originally identified, or ought to have been identified, but
              subsequently progressed an investigation, we consider this to have been a past
              breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR. It is also likely that this constitutes a past breach
              of Condition P12.

      (v)     Has carried out a SOAF investigation and has identified that a BTKNEEC solution
              exists for a site but has not carried out the actions required to implement that
              solution, we consider this site to be in breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR.



Compliance with the section 94 general duty

2.121 Under section 94 WIA91, the key requirements of a company are to:

      (i)     Comply with its duties under the UWWTR both on an individual storm overflow
              level and across its asset base, including adequately applying the BTKNEEC
              standard to its operations.

      (ii)    Ensure wastewater which has been subjected to full treatment and which is to
              be returned to the environment meets the quality conditions outlined in the
              WWTW's permit.

      (iii)   Ensure other wastewater flows to the environment, either direct or via storm
              tanks, and which have not been fully treated only occur in exceptional or
              unforeseeable conditions.



57 We address the factors relevant to our findings in relation to Condition P12 further below.


                                                    41
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

2.122 As noted above, breaches of Regulation 4 UWWTR are also breaches of section 94
      WIA91. In considering whether a company may have also breached its wider
      obligations under section 94 WIA91, we consider whether there has been a systemic
      failure by the company to comply with its obligations; and whether the actions of the
      company were the actions to be expected of a reasonable company. Where breaches
      or risks of breaches are numerous, widespread or persist over an extended period, we
      are likely to view this as being indicative of a systemic failure to make appropriate
      provision for effectually dealing with the contents of sewers, constituting a breach of
      section 94 WIA91.

2.123 The non-exhaustive list below provides examples of steps and actions expected of a
      reasonable company seeking to comply with its section 94 WIA91 general duty, many
      of which mirror those needed to comply with Regulation 4 UWWTR.

Condition and performance of asset base

     (i)     Monitor the condition and performance of its asset base, identify critical assets
             and intervene through either operational or capital investment measures so that,
             as a minimum, compliance with permits and the relevant regulations can be
             assured. Where a company becomes aware of a risk of non-compliance, it will
             act immediately to address it and identify the underlying cause.

     (ii)    Take a proactive and forward-looking approach to maintenance planning for all
             assets across its asset base. This includes putting in place adequate
             management, resources and systems of planning and internal controls to ensure
             that operational performance, including flow compliance, is routinely monitored
             and maintained at its WWTW and on its network, including identifying and
             addressing compliance risks and failures effectively and in a timely manner and
             responding to changes over time in the catchments served.

     (iii)   Ensure adequate oversight by the management team and company board in
             order for them to be aware, respond and engage effectively with compliance
             failures and risks. This includes management and board receiving and seeking
             sufficient information and assurance on the operational performance of
             wastewater assets and their compliance with relevant legal obligations and
             licence conditions.

Management of emerging and present risks

     (iv)    A company is required to comply with its legal and statutory obligations as a
             minimum. It should take a system-wide approach to understanding, planning
             and managing risks and issues for the delivery of its wastewater service by
             having the right information, systems, processes, governance and capabilities in



                                                 42
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

              place. It should use all available data to assess compliance at all of its sites
              within a routine process.

     (v)      Design, construct, operate and maintain its sites to a high standard within a
              culture of compliance.

     (vi)     Use all relevant data and insights to assess trends in performance and their
              implication for the current and future sufficiency of the company's assets.
              Proactively engage with stakeholders such as the relevant planning authorities
              and the Environment Agency to ensure growth in the catchment is understood
              and the company's assets and permit conditions remain fit for purpose.

     (vii)    Ensure WWTW and network assets have appropriate levels of headroom in
              capacity so operational failures need not lead to non-compliance.

Data gathering

     (viii)   Have data gathering, verification and analysis processes in place that are fit for
              purpose to make a reasonable assessment of compliance, and respond to
              variances in data quality across its asset base. Where data is less reliable, a
              company should respond to this and potentially take a more precautionary
              approach to verification.

     (ix)     Have alternative processes to collect and verify the accuracy of data and
              operational compliance in the absence of MCERTs monitors (such as FFT meters
              and EDM on storm tank inlets). In the absence of data, or to supplement its
              available data, a reasonable company will take steps to ensure compliance
              including temporary flow surveys, visual inspections of WWTW and receiving
              waters, routine checking of weir setting, using other data such rainfall data, and
              level changes in storm tanks to provide an overall view of performance, and to fit
              monitoring equipment where feasible.



Condition P12 compliance

2.124 Companies' duties under the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91 are inherently interlinked
      with issues of adequate financial resources, and facilities, management resources and
      systems of planning and internal control at the board and/or management level in
      which Condition P12 requirements are likely to be engaged. Fundamentally, Condition
      P12 requires companies to be run efficiently and effectively, and in compliance with
      their various statutory duties.

2.125 The importance of preventing and reducing the number of storm overflow discharges
      has been the focus of various regulatory developments in the recent years, in

                                                 43
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

      particular since PR19. As set out above, the SOAF guidance was finalised in June 2018,
      with its opening paragraphs stating that it is "intended to demonstrate that sewerage
      systems are compliant with relevant legislation such as the UWWTR". This has put the
      industry on notice that, at the very least, sites meeting the relevant spill thresholds
      under the SOAF are at risk of not complying with that legislation and therefore require
      attention. A number of subsequent regulatory developments further highlighted the
      importance of reducing the number of potentially harmful storm overflow discharges,
      in particular: the coming into force of the Environment Act 2021; the development of
      the SODRP; the accelerated funding being made available under the Green Recovery
      and Accelerated Infrastructure Delivery Project; the roll-out of EDMs and publication
      of the EDM data; as well as communications from the UK Government regarding
      priorities for regulators and wastewater companies.

2.126 The above developments should have informed, and should continue to inform, the
      way companies ensure they are meeting their obligations. The companies should
      similarly take into account any subsequent developments relating to regulatory
      expectations on compliance.

2.127 In recognition of some of the interlinkages with expectations of Regulation 4 UWWTR
      and section 94 WIA91 set out above, the list below further outlines key aspects of how
      a company would behave to ensure compliance with Condition P12:

     (i)     Have processes in place to understand and routinely assess its compliance with
             its legal obligations at every WWTW and network storm overflow, based on actual
             performance rather than the asset's potential capacity.

     (ii)    Have systems in place to escalate actual or risk of non-compliance to prompt
             timely investigation and resolution and prioritise securing compliance.

     (iii)   Have internal controls that follow-up interventions to ensure effective
             compliance.

     (iv)    Ensure operational staff are enabled, by the right information, processes, and
             culture, to understand and prioritise ensuring compliance and to speak up
             where they identify risks to compliance.

     (v)     Have appropriate checks and balances in place to assure monitoring and
             reporting information from operational teams.

     (vi)    Ensure that executives and Board request, receive and meaningfully engage with
             accurate reports on the company’s environmental compliance position and
             resolution of non-compliance, including metrics that go beyond a narrow set of
             price review performance commitments or Environment Agency Environmental
             Performance Assessment metrics.

                                                 44
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

     (vii)    Ensure that its assets are operating, at least, within the parameters of the
              relevant environmental permits.

     (viii)   Have a minimal number of high spilling sites attributable to operational issues
              (as we expect for these to be dealt with as part of a company's routine asset
              maintenance), and where operational issues arise, these are resolved swiftly.

     (ix)     Review its EDM data at least on an annual basis to understand which storm
              overflows should be subject to investigations (as opposed to, for example, only
              reviewing the data once every five years for price review purposes).

     (x)      Progress SOAF investigations for the sites that meet the trigger thresholds under
              the SOAF through their various stages in a timely manner, including the delivery
              of any BTKNEEC solutions identified (that is, not unreasonably delaying viable
              solutions until the following price review period once they have been identified
              as necessary for compliance with the UWWTR).

     (xi)     Not consider the SOAF and WINEP processes to be the only means of satisfying
              the company's obligations under the UWWTR (that is, taking up other
              opportunities to fund and progress solutions where they are needed to ensure
              compliance).

2.128 As a result of the above expectations and the relevant regulatory developments, the
      key evidential factors we take into account in our assessment of a company's conduct
      under Condition P12 in this investigation are:

     (i)      The coverage and pace of the company's EDM roll-out, and the degree to which
              the EDM roll-out revealed high storm overflow spills numbers, indicating that the
              company's previous processes for designing, constructing, operating and
              maintaining assets was deficient.

     (ii)     The frequency with which the company has assessed its EDM data ahead of and
              during the PR19 period against the thresholds which trigger Stage 1 of the SOAF
              (that is, is the cohort of sites it is progressing through the SOAF investigation set
              at a point in time, or refreshed at least in light of the latest annual EDM data).

     (iii)    The number and proportion of sites identified as high spilling for operational
              purposes at Stage 1, and the pace at which the company resolves or reduces
              spills at these sites.

     (iv)     The number and proportion of sites for which environmental harm is identified at
              Stage 2 of the SOAF.




                                                 45
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

      (v)      Whether the company has progressed all sites which meet the thresholds for the
               SOAF through all of the SOAF stages, and at reasonable pace given the times at
               which they were triggered.

      (vi)     Whether the company has provided evidence of other means of monitoring and
               investigating sites for which the SOAF does not apply, to satisfy the BTKNEEC test
               (for example, in relation to coastal, bathing, and shellfish waters).

      (vii)    The number and proportion of sites for which the company has identified
               BTKNEEC solutions (through the SOAF and/or other assessment processes), and
               if these have been delivered or are planned to be achieved at reasonable pace
               (for example, the timescales between the completion of Stage 4 and Stage 5 of
               the SOAF).

      (viii)   The extent to which the company has responded to further regulatory
               developments and funding opportunities during PR19 to bring forward further
               investigations and solutions for high spilling sites (for example, Green Recovery,
               Accelerated Infrastructure Delivery Project, or shareholder funding).

      (ix)     The failure of a company to actively investigate and deliver a BTKNEEC solution in
               response to high spilling sites is in itself a failure with respect to Condition P12
               obligations to have adequate resources and systems of planning and internal
               controls to carry out its regulated activities (in relation to its obligations under
               the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91).



Ofwat's powers

2.129 Breaches of the general duty under section 94, Regulation 4 UWWTR, and licence
      conditions are enforceable by Ofwat under section 18 WIA91.58 If we are satisfied that
      there is, or there is likely to be, a breach, Ofwat is under a duty to impose an
      enforcement order. The purpose of an enforcement order is to secure compliance with
      the relevant obligation.

2.130 Section 19 WIA91 provides limited exceptions to the duty to enforce, including where:
      (i) the contravention is of a trivial nature; or (ii) the company has given a formal
      undertaking to take remedial steps which we consider appropriate to secure
      compliance and is complying with that undertaking. In the event that a company fails
      to comply with an undertaking, Ofwat is under a further duty to pursue an

58 Ofwat has been given a general authorisation by the Secretary of State for the purposes of section

94(3)(b) WIA91, originally signed by the Secretary of State on 27 November 1990 for the Director General
of Water Services under the Water Act 1989. There is nothing in section 94 or in the UWWTR which limits
the ability of either Ofwat or the Secretary of State to enforce the obligations under section 94 WIA91 or
Regulation 4 UWWTR.

                                                   46
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

          enforcement order to ensure the company’s compliance. We provide further
          information on our approach to enforcement orders in Section 5.

2.131 If we are satisfied that a company has contravened or is contravening any condition of
      its licence or a statutory requirement, we may impose a financial penalty under
      section 22A(1) and (2) WIA91. We will consider a number of factors in determining the
      appropriate level of the penalty in the circumstances of each breach, ensuring that
      the amount does not exceed 10% of a company's relevant turnover in the preceding
      year. We explain our approach to calculating financial penalties and the relevant
      statutory provisions more fully in Section 6 and Appendix A7.

2.132 We will consider regulatory settlement where our powers allow us to do so.

2.133 Regulatory settlement may be accepted in lieu of all or part of a financial penalty. It
      can include financial and/or non-financial commitments from the company such as a
      redress package for customers or remediation of a failure. On a case-by-case basis,
      we will decide whether the content of any settlement proposed by a company is
      acceptable. We are open to companies engaging in proactive discussions with us
      about potential settlement.

2.134 Before making an enforcement order or confirming a provisional enforcement order 59
      and/or imposing a penalty, 60 we are required to consider whether it would be more
      appropriate to proceed under the Competition Act 1998 (CA98).




59 Section 19(1A) and 19(1B) WIA91.
60
     Section 22A(13) and 22A(14) WIA91.

                                                    47
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

 3. Our investigation

 Background

3.1   On 18 November 2021, Ofwat and the Environment Agency announced investigations into
      all water and wastewater companies in England and Wales. This was prompted by
      companies revealing to the Storm Overflows Taskforce 61 that data from the installation of
      new EDM and flow measurement devices at their WWTW had indicated that they may not
      be complying with the FFT requirement in their environmental permits. As a result, some
      WWTW might not be treating as much sewage as they should be, which could be
      resulting in sewage discharges into storm tanks and/or the environment at times when
      this should not be happening.

3.2   On the same day, we wrote to all water and wastewater companies in England and Wales
      requesting that they provide a range of information to us. This included:

         •   Providing details about the number of WWTW the company had that might not be
             meeting the FFT requirements of their environmental permits, and an estimate of
             the discharges to the environment this might have caused;

         •   If this was happening, explaining the reasons why;

         •   Explaining how the company managed its WWTW to ensure they meet the FFT
             requirements of their environmental permits;

         •   Setting out what role their board plays in ensuring the company is meeting its FFT
             requirements;

         •   Describing how the company’s board considers the company’s environmental
             performance when making its decisions about the dividends and executive pay
             and bonuses the company pays out; and

         •   Setting out their plans and timelines to put right any problems uncovered.

3.3   We received responses from all companies in December 2021.




 61
   The Storm Overflows Taskforce is a joint group which was established in August 2020 with
 membership drawn from the water industry, environmental non-governmental organisations,
 government representatives and regulators. The taskforce is chaired by the Department for the
 Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Its objective is to recommend actions to achieve the long-
 term aim of eliminating harm from storm overflows in England.

                                                   48
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

 Our investigation into Thames Water

3.4   Ofwat was concerned about the high number of WWTW that Thames Water had reported
      as potentially non-compliant with its FFT permit conditions in its December 2021
      response. We also had follow-on questions about:

        •   the methodology which Thames Water had used to assess and identify FFT non-
            compliance and its root causes, and whether this methodology was sufficiently
            robust; and/or

        •   the adequacy of the resources and systems of planning and internal control
            Thames Water had in place to ensure compliance with FFT conditions and its
            duties under the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91.


3.5   In March 2022 we announced that we had opened an enforcement case into Thames
      Water 62 and served it with a formal notice under section 203 WIA9163. In that notice, we
      explained that based on its December 2021 response, it appeared to Ofwat that Thames
      Water may have contravened, be contravening, or be likely to contravene, the following:

        a. Paragraph 12 of Condition P in relation to the adequacy of its resources and
           systems of planning and internal control to enable it to carry out its regulated
           activities, particularly in relation to its obligations under section 94(1)(b) of the
           WIA91; and/or

        b. The requirements of its general duty under Section 94 of the WIA91 to provide a
           sewerage system (in particular Section 94(1)(b) in relation to its duty to make
           provision for dealing effectually, by means of sewage disposal works or otherwise,
           with the contents of the sewers in its sewerage system) and including but not
           limited to breaches of Regulations 4(4) and 5 of the Urban Wastewater Treatment
           (England and Wales) Regulations 1994.


3.6   During the course of our investigation we made multiple detailed requests for
      information and data to Thames Water to enable us to gain an understanding of the
      company's overall compliance position with its obligations under section 94 and


 62
    We also announced that we had opened enforcement cases into four other companies (Anglian
 Water, Northumbrian Water, Yorkshire Water and Wessex Water). We opened a case into South West
 Water in June 2022 and cases into Dyr Cymru / Welsh Water, Hafren Dyfrdwy, Severn Trent Water and
 United Utilities Water in July 2024.
 63
    We issue a section 203 notice where we consider that the company may be contravening, may have
 contravened, or may be likely to contravene any of its licence conditions or the relevant statutory
 obligations that Ofwat is responsible for enforcing. This is to secure access to the information that we
 need to understand the existence, nature and extent of any such contraventions. Serving the section
 203 notice does not imply that we will conclude that there has been any such contravention or that we
 will pursue formal enforcement action and/or impose a financial penalty. However, these options may
 be open to us.

                                                    49
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

       Regulation 4 UWWTR. We also met with the company on a number of occasions to help
       our understanding of this.

 3.7   The focus of our information requests was initially on the company's performance in
       relation to its FFT permit requirements and what this indicates about the way that the
       company monitors, operates, maintains, repairs and enhances its WWTW to be
       compliant and its approach to managing compliance more broadly and taking remedial
       action where necessary. In Thames Water's case, some of the information that it
       provided also pointed to potential compliance issues in relation to other aspects of its
       custodianship of its WWTW and wider sewerage network (which we consider relevant
       indicators of UWWTR compliance) so further information on these was also requested.
       We also asked Thames Water about the action it has taken in relation to high spilling
       storm overflows.

 3.8   In order to ensure the company is complying with its environmental obligations, we have
       sought to understand what information Thames Water has (and had in the past) about
       the operation and compliance of its WWTW and network, how it uses this information to
       inform its operational decisions, and the extent to which its senior management and
       Board has oversight and considers operational and compliance risks and failures,

 3.9   In December 2023 we notified Thames Water of our provisional findings in light of the
       evidence we had obtained up to that point64. Thames Water was given the opportunity to
       respond to these findings and to make representations on the facts of the case. It was
       also invited to provide us with any further relevant evidence for our consideration. In
       addition to a written response to our provisional findings, which was submitted to us in
       January 2024, Thames Water also provided a number of further representations and
       clarifications over the period to April 2024. This included evidence in relation to its
       assessment of high spilling sites which had been triggered under the SOAF framework;
       further updates on the steps it is taking to improve its processes, oversight and
       governance, and a further update on its planned investment to address compliance
       risks in its business plan for PR24.

3.10   Having considered the further evidence and representations provided by Thames Water,
       in August 2024, we published a consultation document on our proposed decision (our
       draft decision) to impose a financial penalty on Thames Water and our proposal to
       issue an enforcement order setting out the steps that we expect Thames Water to take
       to remedy the contraventions that we had identified 65.

3.11   We received a detailed response from Thames Water on 10 September 2024 in which it
       challenged our draft decision that it had breached Regulation 4 UWWTR, section 94
       WIA91 and Condition P of its licence and our proposal to impose a financial penalty in

  64
    Investigation into sewage treatment works - Ofwat
  65
    We also published consultation documents setting out our proposed decisions in relation to
  Yorkshire Water's and Northumbrian Water's management of their wastewater assets.

                                                   50
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

       relation to its past breaches and enforcement order to prevent ongoing or likely future
       breaches. Thames Water also provided further updates on changes it had made, or is
       proposing to make, to address issues identified during the course of our investigation
       and to improve its oversight and governance arrangements. In addition to the response
       from Thames Water, we also received responses to our consultation from a number of
       other stakeholders, including other water companies, environmental non-governmental
       organisations (eNGOs) and members of the public. A summary of the responses received
       is provided in Appendix A2.

3.12   Having considered these responses, and having taken account of the updated
       information provided by Thames Water, in the following sections we set out the range of
       evidence that we have considered as part of our investigation and which we have taken
       into account in reaching our final decision in this case.



  The scale of potential FFT non-compliance at Thames Water's
  WWTW

3.13   Within its area of appointment, Thames Water treats and recycles wastewater at 354
       WWTW. Of these, Thames Water told us that 197 have environmental permits which
       include a specific FFT requirement. It also has a further 39 WWTW which operate under
       Temporary Deemed Consents (TDCs) 66. These are sites which, whilst they currently do
       not have a specific FFT requirement, are expected to treat the amount of flow the site
       was designed and funded to treat, but are yet to be updated into an Environmental
       Permitting Regulations (EPR) style permit.

3.14   In response to our section 203 notices, Thames Water provided information on the
       number of its WWTW that it considered could be potentially non-compliant with FFT
       permit requirements. This included the sites with specific FFT permit conditions as well
       as those with TDCs.

3.15   Thames Water explained that in the absence of Spill-to-Storm (U_MON3) and FFT
       (U_MON4) monitors its ability to fully, and accurately, assess FFT compliance at its sites
       has been limited. 67 In the past, it relied on data from TDV or FE flow meters to indicate

  66
     According to Thames Water, TDCs were issued for sites with storm discharges by the National Rivers
  Authority (at the time) at privatisation and did not include specific FFT requirements. Since then,
  these consents have been determined by the Environment Agency, but they have yet to be updated
  into an Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) style permit. In the meantime, the Environment
  Agency expects these sites to treat the amount of flow the site was designed and funded to treat. In its
  January 2024 response, Thames Water told us that it is currently liaising with the Environment Agency
  to update certain of these TDCs to new environmental permits which will include a FFT requirement.
  67
     In 2020 Thames Water had 197 WWTW with a FFT permit requirement but none of these had MCERTS
  FFT monitors and only one site had an EDM on the spill to storm tank. As explained in following
  sections, it has now accelerated the roll-out of U_MON3 and U_MON4 monitors at its WWTW.]

                                                     51
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

       whether a site was likely to be meeting its FFT permit conditions but Thames Water also
       stressed that as there are significant deficiencies in this approach, this method of
       assessing FFT compliance is only an indicator.68 More recently, as EDM data on spills to
       the environment has become available, it has used the methodology recommended by
       UK Water Industry Research (UKWIR) 69 which uses data from both MCERTS TDV
       monitors and EDM spill-to-environment monitors. This is the methodology that Thames
       Water used in assessing the FFT compliance of its sites for its responses to our section
       203 notices.

3.16   In those responses, Thames Water continued to caveat the accuracy of this assessment
       due to limitations with the source data and the methodology used. It told us that the
       outputs of its assessment should be treated with a high degree of caution 70; that until


  68
     The method used took the 99th percentile TDV/FE flow and compared this to the FFT permit limit.
  Thames Water noted that this data describes the flow that has been treated as opposed to the flow
  passed to treatment and is not representative of the actual conditions at the point of storm separation.
  It also noted that in most cases, TDV/FE monitors do not assess FFT accurately as there is a gap in time
  between the point at which flow enters the treatment process and the point at which it passes the
  TDV/FE monitor. The diversion or recirculation of flows within the treatment process can also impact
  accurate FFT monitoring. As such, Thames Water noted, an assessment of FFT compliance that is
  based on FE flow monitor data may be inaccurate. It nevertheless used this data in its 2021 and 2022
  Assessments as it considered this was its only reliable source of flow data. It also noted that since
  Thames Water (along with the rest of the industry) has historically focussed on measuring FE volumes,
  it was unable to confidently assess compliance with the FFT requirements of its environmental permits
  at sites that lacked U_MON3 and U_MON4 monitors. It stated that new flow data will become available
  throughout AMP7 from U_MON3 and U_MON4 monitors, and this will allow for more reliable and
  accurate assessments of FFT compliance.
  69
     UKWIR, Wastewater Treatment Works Flow to Full Treatment-Monitoring and Compliance Assessment
  Method Development, 2019. Using this approach, if a site’s average flow during a spill as a percentage
  of FFT was below 92% (this accounts for the margin of error in the monitor of +/-8%) Thames Water
  flagged it as a potentially non-compliant site. A technical judgement was then made by Thames Water
  on certain sites that were above or below this threshold as to whether they needed to be included on
  the list of potentially non-compliant sites. The following features of the data were considered as part of
  this process:
  • Level of missing data;
  • Obvious erroneous data due to a faulty monitor;
  • Factors which could have skewed the data (low spill counts, one-off events); and
  • Average performance over the length of a spill. For example, taking account of poor performance at
       the beginning of a spill but reaching FFT at the end. This was then assessed against the location of
       the flow monitor to establish if this could be a factor.
  70
     Thames Water told us that 15-minute total daily flow data from MCERTS FE monitors was used to
  assess FFT but that the data describes the flow that has been treated as opposed to the flow passed to
  treatment and is not representative of the actual conditions at the point of storm separation. "It can
  therefore only be regarded as a proxy for FFT. This is because of the length of time between the sewage
  entering the treatment process and exiting, or otherwise being changed by on-site processes (for
  example inter-stage pumping), and the impact this has on establishing the flow at the storm
  separation point rather than the FE point". As such, Thames Water told us that it only able to provide an
  estimate of potential FFT compliance based on best available data. It also noted that the EDM data
  used in the assessment is from the spill-to-environment monitors and therefore does not capture the
  length of time spilling into the storm tank, only out of it.


                                                     52
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

       U_MON3 and U_MON4 monitors are installed, commissioned and fully operational it will
       not have a complete picture of its compliance position across all of its sites; and, as a
       result, there is still a significant degree of uncertainty over the true scale of its potential
       non-compliance.

3.17   Thames Water's uncertainty over its actual compliance position was also reflected in the
       fact that, over the course of our investigation, the number of sites which it assessed as
       being potentially non-compliant with their FFT permit conditions changed materially. In
       its December 2021 response, for example, it told us it had identified 104 sites of concern
       based on its assessment of data from 2020. In its April 2022 response to our section 203
       notice, this number increased to 137 based on its assessment of data from 2021 and in a
       further response in September 2022 it explained that it was looking again at 20 sites
       which had been identified as potentially non-compliant under its assessment of 2020
       data but not 2021 data. Thames Water told us that in the interests of transparency, and
       to gain a fuller picture of the true scale of its potential non-compliance, it would
       therefore need to investigate a total of 157 sites of concern. This is equivalent to 66.5%,
       or almost two thirds, of all its WWTW with FFT permits or TDCs.

3.18   In undertaking its assessment, Thames Water explained that it had adopted a "cautious
       approach" of including in its numbers of potentially non-compliant sites those it could
       clearly identify to be non-compliant and those where compliance was not fully clear.
       Therefore, in addition to sites which were clearly showing potentially non-compliant FFT
       performance (88 or 37.3% of its WWTW with FFT permits or TDCs), or sites which were
       capable of meeting FFT requirements but were not doing so consistently (41 or 17.4%), it
       also included sites where the data was inconclusive or indicated marginal or one-off
       non-compliance (that is, sites that were not indicating performance that was FFT
       compliant). The breakdown of the 157 sites of concern by these different categories is
       shown in Table 3.1 below.




                                                   53
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

       Table 3.1 – Thames Water's sites of concern


                                                                         FFT           TDC          Total


         Underperforming
         Sites which are clearly showing performance potentially           75            13            88
         non-compliant with FFT


         Inconsistent performance
         Sites which are demonstrating a capability of meeting FFT        33             8             41
         at times but not consistently.


         Marginal underperformance
         Sites which are consistently nearing FFT but not quite -          11            5             16
         typically on average 80-92% FFT.


         Skewed assessment
         Sites which are generally compliant but have signs of a           11             1            12
         one-off event which is potentially non-compliant


         Total Sites of Concern                                          130             27           157


         % of total sites with FFT/TDC                                 66.0%         69.2%          66.5%


         Total Sites with FFT permits or TDC                              197           39            236


         Source: Thames Water section 203 responses.


3.19    While acknowledging the approach adopted by Thames Water in its assessment of
        whether its WWTW have been meeting FFT permit levels, it is nevertheless evident that
        even on a less "cautious" approach, potential FFT non-compliance is extensive across its
        WWTW estate. It is also evident that, based on its own categorisation, a significant
        number of its sites (88) do not have the capacity to meet FFT permit conditions, while a
        further 69 sites, while they may have the capacity to do so, are not being operated or
        maintained in a manner to ensure that they are meeting FFT permit conditions
        consistently.



  The duration of potential FFT non-compliance

3.20    The information that Thames Water provided on its sites of concern gives a snapshot of
        its compliance position based on its assessment of data for 2020 and 2021. However, it is
        also evident from its responses to our information requests that the company had been
        aware of FFT compliance risks at many of its WWTW for some time. It had also been



                                                         54
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

       subject to previous enforcement action by the Environment Agency for failings at a
       number of its WWTW.

3.21   According to documents provided to us during the course of our investigation, the
       Environment Agency 71 wrote to Thames Water in 2017 setting out its concerns about
       aspects of its WWTW compliance. This followed Thames Water's prosecution for a series
       of serious pollution incidents over the period from 2012 to 2014 arising from prolonged
       discharges of untreated sewage from its WWTW at Aylesbury, Didcot, Henley and Little
       Marlow, and a large sewage pumping station at Littlemore, Oxford. As a result of these
       incidents and the Environment Agency's prosecution, Thames Water received a record
       fine of £20.3m in 2017. 72

3.22   Thames Water's failure to manage its FFT compliance was a key aspect of these
       Environment Agency prosecutions. It was demonstrated, for example, that at a number
       of its WWTW FFT was routinely reduced and a portion of the flow was sent to storm tanks
       in order to ensure that the quality of the final effluent being discharged from the site
       met permit limits - a practice known as ‘flow clipping' 73. In correspondence with Thames
       Water in July 2017 the Environment Agency also noted that there had been several
       "recent examples", which had been picked up during routine site inspections, where
       Thames Water's WWTW might not be treating the FFT required by its permits on an
       ongoing basis. In addition, a further Environment Agency enforcement case relating to
       serious pollution incidents at Thames Water's Princess Risborough WWTW 74 around the
       same period 75 had also highlighted concerns that its sites might not be set-up to treat
       permitted FFT.



  71
     The Environment Agency wrote to Thames Water on 26 July 2017 setting out its concerns and seeking
  assurances from Thames Water regarding potential compliance issues, including flows, at its WWTW.
  Thames Water responded in November 2017.
  72
     Thames Water ordered to pay record £20 million for river pollution.
  73
     Thames Water's focus on final effluent quality or 'end of pipe' compliance and a failure to focus on
  compliance with other environmental permit conditions, including flow compliance, was also
  identified as an ongoing issue in a number of internal audit reports. See, for example, paragraphs
  3.149 to 3.155
  74
     Thames Water was fined £380,000 at Aylesbury Crown Court in 2016 for polluting the Horsenden
  Stream in Buckinghamshire.
  75
     Thames Water has also been prosecuted by the Environment Agency and fined for a number of other
  serious pollution incidents around this period which resulted from discharges of untreated sewage
  from its WWTW. In May 2021, for example, it was fined £4 million after pleading guilty to pollution
  incidents from its Hogsmill WWTW which took place between 2016 and 2019 in the Kingston area. In
  November 2021, it was fined £4 million for discharging an estimated half a million litres of raw sewage
  into the Seacourt and Hinksey streams in Oxford on 24 and 25 July 2016. A failure by the company to
  carry out essential maintenance to prevent blockages in a sewer with known vulnerabilities was cited
  as a key cause of the discharge and was therefore considered to be foreseeable and avoidable. More
  recently, in July 2023, Thames Water was fined a further £3.3 million for "significant and lengthy"
  discharging sewage from its WWTW into Gatwick Stream in Sussex and the River Mole in Surrey. These
  incidents dated from October 2017. Following the July 2023 decision, the Environment Agency noted


                                                    55
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

3.23   In its 2017 correspondence, the Environment Agency sought assurances from Thames
       Water that it had appropriate systems and actions in place (or planned) to prevent
       practices such as flow clipping occurring again and to ensure that FFT compliance 76
       would be achieved at each relevant WWTW within a reasonable timescale 77. While the
       Environment Agency acknowledged that this would depend on the scale of works
       required, it nevertheless stressed the need for Thames Water to return its sites to FFT
       compliance without undue delay.

3.24   In its response in November 2017 78, Thames Water acknowledged the Environment
       Agency's concerns and assured it that the company had several initiatives and activities
       underway to improve its understanding of the scale of FFT compliance risk and to deliver
       the necessary changes.

3.25   Thames Water explained that as part of an initiative known as Go to Green (G2G)
       programme, it was undertaking a wholesale review of the capability of the company's
       WWTW, on a site-by-site basis, to highlight any constraints to WWTW performance and
       permit compliance.

3.26   In terms of the timeframe for addressing the identified compliance risks, we understand
       that Thames Water told the Environment Agency that, following an initial assessment, it
       had identified a number of sites which required further investigation to understand the
       root causes of those that were potentially non-compliant, and the steps needed to bring
       them back into compliance. It noted that for some WWTW a relatively simple solution
       might be sufficient to ensure full permit compliance whilst at others capital works might
       be required. As a result, until design and costings had been completed, it informed the
       Environment Agency that it was not possible to indicate how long it would take to deliver
       the full programme but that, given the number of sites on its initial list, it might not be
       possible to complete all of the required works within "the current AMP" (that is,within
       the AMP6 period of 2015-20) 79.



  that as a result of its prosecutions for pollution incidents Thames Water had been fined a total of
  £35.7m since 2017.
  76
     In its July 2017 letter, the Environment Agency also highlighted a number of other issues including
  the adequacy of the FFT permit conditions at some sites; the use of storm tanks for balancing flows
  and the need, where necessary, to have adequate balancing tanks capacity. The Environment Agency
  also sought assurances around process return flows to ensure that these do not re-enter upstream of
  the storm weir as this would reduce flows receiving full treatment and risks process liquors entering
  the storm tank and discharge.
  77
     In its letter, the Environment Agency noted that how Thames Water did this was up to it but
  suggested that Thames Water consider using new and existing FFT flow monitors and EDM, capable of
  demonstrating that FFT is being met when flow is discharging to storm tanks.
  78
     Letter from Thames Water's Managing Director for Wholesale Wastewater to the Environment
  Agency's Area Director for the Thames Water region, 17 November 2017.
  79
     The Asset Management Plan (AMP) period is linked to Ofwat's 5-year price review cycle. AMP6 relates
  to the period from 2015 to 2020; AMP7 to the period from 2020 to 2025 and AMP8 to the period from
  2025 to 2030.

                                                   56
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

3.27   It would also appear from documents dating from the initial stages of the G2G
       programme that Thames Water sought to re-assure the Environment Agency that the
       programme was being progressed "with a determination to reduce non-compliance risk
       quickly, but without unwise haste and possibly compromising other important
       deliverables" 80. It also referred to a preliminary discussion which had taken place with
       the Environment Agency to discuss the criteria that Thames Water might use to
       prioritise required works and noted that it "may need to consider whether there are any
       regulatory interventions that should be considered, particularly if the programme
       extends into the period 2020-2025" (that is, AMP7) and the extent to which potential
       synergies with other investment programmes might help to address permit compliance
       risks.

3.28   In its responses to our section 203 notices, Thames Water confirmed that its G2G
       programme had been established in 2017 to address compliance risks where a review of
       data from its monitors and input from the Environment Agency 81 had identified flow
       concerns. It also confirmed that as part of this programme, it had undertaken an
       assessment of the non-compliance risk profile for all of its c. 350 WWTW including c.
       250 82 those with flow permit conditions 83.

3.29   According to the documents provided to us 84, this initiative was intended to provide the
       company with a "holistic view" of the performance of its WWTW in terms of potential
       issues with meeting flow requirements in permitsand, in addition, also considered
       resource and capability issues, capacity issues due to historic growth and headroom
       erosion, asset health, as well as site systems and processes.

3.30   In these documents, Thames Water acknowledged that "the ability of its WWTW to treat
       sewage within regulatory limits was becoming increasingly challenging due to
       population growth, headroom erosion and tightening consents". It also noted that "some
       sites were operating beyond their design capacity as a result of historic growth or


  80
     Thames Water's letter to the Environment Agency, 17 November 2017.
  81
     The Environment Agency had identified 59 sites which it had concerns about.
  82
     In its responses to our section 203 notices, Thames Water informed us that the number of its WWTW
  with FFT permit conditions or Temporary Deemed Consents is now 236.
  83
     The initial risk assessment appears to have been undertaken by Thames Water's capital delivery
  partner for AMP6 and suggested that there were widespread issues across its WWTW estate. In a
  document entitled 'Go to Green - Slides for 23rd Jan 2018 N.Watts Deep Dive v4' and dated January
  2018, for example, 217 sites were initially identified as having concerns with flow, capacity or DWF. Of
  these 217 sites, 121 (55.8%) were rated as high risk and a further 60 (27.6%) as medium risk. On the
  basis of this initial assessment, it was estimated that it could cost between £500-£800 million to
  address and resolve the full range of compliance risks identified. The January 2018 document also
  included an initial timeline for addressing issues at the 217 sites with flow, capacity and/or DWF
  concerns. At that time, it anticipated that 31 high risk sites would be addressed in AMP6, 133 high/
  medium risk sites in AMP7 and the remaining 48 sites in AMP8. Five sites were identified as not
  requiring improvement works for flow compliance.
  84
     From Thames Water's document entitled 'Go to Green Flow Compliance Update, Environment Agency,
  19 March 2018'.

                                                    57
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

       asset deterioration" and that "numerous sites were potentially in exceedance
       of FFT during high rainfall/storm conditions at flows below permitted levels and that a
       few sites might not be meeting permitted DWF". 85

3.31   In updating the Environment Agency on G2G at that time, Thames Water also noted that,
       following its assessment, the scope of the programme was fairly well defined and it had
       a clear list of sites with either a lack of capacity due to headroom erosion or asset health
       issues, and sites with potential flow / storm volume issues. It claimed that the holistic
       approach it had adopted gave the company "a better understanding of investment
       requirements at Red and Amber sites across the whole of Thames Water estate". It
       stated that it had also improved the company's visibility and understanding of short-
       term mitigation and management of sites with permit issues and capacity challenges, as
       well as a better understanding of future capital maintenance requirements to ensure
       sustainability. This, Thames Water explained, would also "deliver a reduction in the
       number of works operating at reduced ‘headroom’ and risk" 86.

3.32   In its responses to our section 203 notices, Thames Water provided further detail on the
       approach it had adopted to assess its FFT risk under the G2G programme and the
       analysis it had undertaken. It explained that for sites with MCERT flow permits 87, it had
       calculated the 99th percentile of the 15-minute FE (TDV) flow data 88 and compared this
       to the FFT value in the relevant environmental permit to give an indication as to any
       potential compliance concern, using data for the three-year period from 2015 to 2017.
       The results of its assessment for the 250 sites with flow permits showed that at 106 of
       these sites (that is, more than 40%) the actual level of FFT treated was lower than that
       required by the permit. Of these 106 sites, the assessment showed that at 70 sites the
       actual level of FFT treated was at least 10% less than the permit level and at more than
       40 sites, the actual level of FFT treated was at least 20% less than permit levels.89
       Thames Water stressed again, however, that the limited nature of the data set available
       to it at that time did not provide a definitive view of a site's performance, but only an
       indication as to whether there was an FFT compliance concern.


3.33   It also explained that while the main focus of its risk assessment was on FFT
       performance, as the G2G programme developed each WWTW site was allocated a




  85
     Ibid.
  86
     Ibid.
  87
     From information contained in PowerPoint Presentation (sharepoint.com) - Go to Green Gateway 0
  25 July 2019.
  88
     See footnote 9. Thames Water also noted that the EDM data used in its assessment is from spills-to-
  environment monitors, therefore, does not capture the length of time spilling into the storm tank, only
  out of it.
  89
     From information contained in Thames Water's document 'Go to Green Flow Meeting Deep Dive - 19
  February 2018 (slide 4)'.

                                                    58
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

       combined risk score 90 and a rank based on an assessment not only of the site's FFT
       compliance for the period from 2015- 2017 (the primary score) but also a number of
       other metrics to reflect asset health (the secondary score), as well as factors such as the
       sensitivity of the watercourse that the WWTW was discharging into 91. On the basis of this
       analysis, 109 sites were given a risk score which was rated either red or amber 92.
       Thames Water emphasised again that the G2G assessment and subsequent ranking of
       sites was never intended to be a definitive view of compliance but rather, was used by
       the company to prioritise sites which required more detailed investigation 93.

3.34   While Thames Water's original risk assessment had rated more than 100 sites as red or
       amber in terms of potential compliance risks, fewer than 30 sites were included on the
       initial priority list under the G2G programme (the 'priority sites') 94 and ultimately,
       Thames Water has told us that it was the top 23 sites which were prioritised for
       investment95.


  90
     The combined risk score included capacity risk, FFT risk, DWF risk and return liquors risk factored for
  population, sites highlighted as sites of concern by the Environment Agency and in the EPR and
  receiving water quality. From Thames Water's document 'Go to Green Flow Meeting Deep Dive - 19
  February 2018.
  91
     Thames Water also told us that the G2G rank, based on the overall score and primary score, was
  reviewed separately to ensure that significant compliance risk sites were not deprioritised because of
  a low factor score.
  92
     A review of the compliance risk heatmap contained in Thames Water's document 'Green Flow
  Meeting Deep Dive - 19 February 2018' shows 66 sites rated as red and 43 as amber on the basis of
  Thames Water's assessment of the various metrics (slide 5). However, in the same document, when
  considering the potential cost to resolve issues at its sites, Thames Water categorised a total of 112
  sites as red or amber (i.e. 69 sites as red and 43 as amber). The document also estimated the cost to
  address compliance risk at the 112 red and amber sites to be £391.6 million and an estimated £584
  million in total to resolve all flow compliance and capacity issues at all 250 sites investigated (slide 7).
  93
     Thames Water's response to question 1c, September 2022.
  94
     The number of sites included in the G2G programme evolved from the original list of sites which had
  been identified in 2017-2018 as further analysis and planning was undertaken. In its initial phase,
  Thames Water's appears to have focused on 29 "red high priority sites" (based on information
  contained in document 'Go to Green EA Flow Meeting - 11 September 2018, slide 12). By June 2019, the
  number of sites had reduced to 28 as some sites were "retired from the programme" and others added
  (from document 'Go to Green EA Flow Meeting (draft) - 18 June 2019, slide 6). A number of these sites
  were also categorised, at this stage, as "Investigated / corrected – monitor and verify" (i.e. Chapmore
  End, Fyfield, Hambleden, Little Marlow, Wargrave, Chipping Warden and Forest Hill).
  As part of its response to our section 203 notices, Thames Water told us that under its Compliance First
  programme, compliance issues at 25 sites would be addressed under G2G during AMP7 (these sites are
  listed in Appendix A3). This figure was updated by Thames Water in its September 2022 response, with
  44 sites being prioritised for G2G in AMP7, and funding of £179.4 million allocated.
  As noted in later sections of this document, the Compliance First programme has subsequently been
  encompassed by Thames Water's Wastewater Asset Assurance Programme (WAAP) and the company's
  estimates of the timeframe for delivery of remedial works, and the investment needed to undertake
  these works, has also evolved.
  95
     In its April 2022 response to our section 203 notice (page 41), for example, Thames Water told us that
  the "outcome of the [G2G] assessment resulted in the instigation of 23 capital upgrade projects to
  address potential non-compliance risk. See also, Thames Water's response to question 16 of its
  response to follow-on questions, dated September 2022.

                                                      59
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

3.35   When challenged as to its plans for the sites which had been identified as having
       compliance risks or which were known to be at risk of becoming non-compliant, but
       which were not part of the priority list (the 'non-priority sites') 96, Thames Water told us
       that it had always intended G2G to be a multi-AMP programme, aimed at investigating
       sites and delivering solutions for the highest risk/prioritised sites as fast as possible
       "within deliverability constraints". It also intended that the G2G risk assessment would
       be repeated periodically as more data became available - with the result that the
       prioritisation of sites might change over time.

3.36   When questioned about its decision making on the speed with which known compliance
       risks would be addressed 97 and the level of funding made available to do this, Thames
       Water told us that it had sought to balance a number of risks and competing priorities
       across its business, including tackling leakage, addressing pollution incidents,
       improving customer service and reducing the risk of asset failure. As a result, and in line
       with its systems and procedures, it noted that its decisions on investment priorities were
       driven by an assessment of available funding and outcomes based on the data available.
       It stressed again that some WWTW, which had been identified as a compliance risk
       under G2G but not prioritised for funding under AMP7, might have received funding via
       its directly managed capital (DMC) programme 98 (intended to fund planned or reactive
       work at its WWTW) to enable the delivery of 'quick-wins' locally 99.



  96
     Thames Water told us that it also took account of sites which were predicted to be the subject of
  significant population growth over the period from 2020 to 2025 (that is, over AMP7) as this could
  exacerbate any existing compliance risks. This meant that sites which were due to be upgraded as part
  of the WINEP were also prioritised. According to Thames Water, this provided an opportunity for it to
  address FFT compliance in parallel with the other needs on the site.
  97
     While Thames Water has told us that G2G was always intended to be multi-AMP, a number of the
  documents relating to its engagement with the Environment Agency when the G2G initiative was being
  developed would seem to indicate that the original intention was for the company to take the
  necessary steps to reduce its non-compliance risk quickly. Those documents do acknowledge the
  possibility of some slippage if "it might not be possible to complete all of the required works within the
  current AMP" (that is, AMP6) but only refer to a relatively short extension of the timeline for resolution
  i.e. "if the programme extends into the period 2020-2025" (that is, AMP7). Letter from Thames Water to
  the Environment Agency, 17 November 2017.
  98
     Thames Water told us that DMC treatment spend at the start of the AMP7 was higher than the
  corresponding figure for AMP6. This spend is prioritised for both planned, planned reactive and
  reactive spend to manage all operational risks through regional and Thames Water risk review
  processes.
  Measures to address issues at Crondall WWTW, which was included on the initial list of high-risk sites,
  was one of the sites earmarked for delivery via DMC. ('Go to Green Flow Meeting - September 2020'.)
  99
     Thames Water also outlined a number of other reasons why sites with high compliance risks may not
  have been included as part of the priority list, for example, sites where the G2G assessment did not
  align with the view of their Operations team or on-site monitoring; sites with a high spill count but
  which was linked to periods of high groundwater infiltration and/or surface water inundation rather
  than FFT permit non-compliance (and were therefore included in Thames Water's Groundwater
  Impacted System Management Plans); and sites with multiple small to moderate risks, which ranked
  higher under the G2G assessment than a site with a single acute risk, but which could be mitigated
  locally by Operations using enhanced maintenance, monitoring or small locally managed upgrades.

                                                     60
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

3.37    Thames Water did repeat the G2G risk assessment in 2020 using data from its EDM
        monitors and refreshed TDV flow data, as well as updated insight from its operational
        teams. The 2020 G2G assessment also continued to consider other risk factors in
        addition to FFT flow compliance, such as asset health and the sensitivity of the receiving
        water course 100. The results of its 2020 assessment showed that three years after its
        initial G2G assessment (which was based on data from 2015 to 2017), a significant
        number of Thames Water's sites were still rated as red or amber in terms of their
        compliance risks.

3.38    In the following table the top 50 highest ranked sites based on the 2017 G2G compliance
        risk assessment are listed as well as information on whether each site was included in
        Thames Water's original list of priority sites for its G2G programme (these sites are
        shaded in the table). In addition, we have included information on whether the site also
        appeared in the top 50 highest risk sites under the 2020 G2G assessment and, if so,
        where that site ranked on that list 101. Finally, and while recognising that the G2G risk
        ranking also includes indicators other than FFT, we have included information on
        whether the site was identified by Thames Water as one of its 157 sites of concern (these
        are shaded in the table) and, if so, how Thames Water has categorised the site's FFT
        performance.

        Table 3.2: Top 50 highest ranked sites in terms of overall risk 102.
                                 G2G risk    Included in     G2G Risk      Whether      How Thames
                                 ranking      initial G2G     Ranking     the site is     Water has
                                (based on       priority    (based on       one of       categorised
                                 Thames         list? 103     Thames       Thames       the site's FFT
                                 Water's                      Water's     Water's 157   performance.
                               combined                     combined       sites of
                               risk score)                  risk score)    concern
                                                             (2020) 104     (FFT)
         Camberley            1              No             2             Yes           Underperforming
         Kintbury             2              Yes            7             Yes           Underperforming


  100
      As the 2020 G2G assessment also had access to EDM spills data, the sites performance in terms of
  spill count was also considered. However, Thames Water noted that while some sites were given a
  high-risk ranking based on their EDM performance, the high spill count did not correlate with the high
  level FFT analysis, or the on-site operational experience of the site. These sites were highlighted for
  further investigation to ensure that the EDM was reporting accurately.
  101
      The fact that sites which were in the top 50 in the original G2G risk assessment but not in the 2020
  assessment does not imply that compliance risks were resolved at these sites. It may simply reflect the
  fact that the site has moved down the ranking.
  102
      From Thames Water's document 'Go to Green Heatmap and Top 50 sites - September 2019. The table
  also incorporates data provided by Thames Water in its July 2022 response to our follow-on question 19.
  103
      In addition to the sites highlighted in the table a number of other sites were also included in the
  initial list of priority sites. These included Cranley, Fyfield, Hambleden, Little Marlow, Wargrave,
  Chipping Warden, Crondall, Stanford in Vale, Worminghall and Dorking.
  104
      The other sites that were listed in the top 50 based on the 2020 G2G assessment were Fairford,
  Burstow, Maple Lodge, Ampney St Peter, Watlington, Kingsclere, Maidenhead, Cuddington, Moreton-
  in-Marsh, Berkhampstead, Benson, Esher and Witney.

                                                    61
Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                    on Thames Water

                       G2G risk    Included in     G2G Risk      Whether      How Thames
                       ranking      initial G2G     Ranking     the site is     Water has
                      (based on       priority    (based on       one of       categorised
                       Thames         list? 103     Thames       Thames       the site's FFT
                       Water's                      Water's     Water's 157   performance.
                     combined                     combined       sites of
                     risk score)                  risk score)    concern
                                                   (2020) 104     (FFT)
Harpenden            3             Yes            1             Yes           Underperforming
Bracknell            4             Yes            3             Yes           Underperforming
Guildford            5             Yes            6             Yes           Underperforming
Chilton Foliat       6             Yes            48            Yes           Skewed
East Shefford        7             Yes                          Yes           Underperforming
Chapmore End         8             Yes            12            No
Bordon               9             Yes                          Yes           Inconsistent
Mill Green           10            No             5             Yes           Underperforming
Tring                11            No             11            No
Chieveley            12            No             47            No
Hogsmill             13            No             21            Yes           Underperforming
Chinnor              14            No             13            Yes           Inconsistent
Easthampstead Park   15            No                                         Inconsistent
                                                  30            Yes
                                                                              (2020)
Slough               16            No             4             No
Gerrards Cross       17            No             41            Yes           Underperforming
Marlborough          18            No             19            Yes           Marginal (2020)
Church Hanborough    19            No             43            Yes           Inconsistent
Dorchester           20            Yes                          Yes           Skewed (2020)
Newbury              21            No             14            Yes           Inconsistent
Haslemere            22            Yes                          Yes           Underperforming
Chesham              23            No             25            No
Sandhurst            24            No             42            Yes           Inconsistent
Hungerford           25            Yes            15            Yes           Underperforming
Oxford               26            No             40            Yes           Underperforming
Mogden               27            No             32            Yes           Underperforming
Windsor              28            No             8             Yes           Skewed
Chobham              29            No                                         Under
                                                                Yes
                                                                              performing
Drayton              30            No             45            Yes           Inconsistent
Highworth            31            Yes
Wokingham            32            No             16            Yes           Underperforming
Ramsbury             33            No                           Yes           Inconsistent
                                                                              (2020)
Thornwood            34            No                           Yes           Inconsistent
Shutford             35            Yes                          Yes           Underperforming



                                          62
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

                                  G2G risk     Included in     G2G Risk       Whether       How Thames
                                  ranking       initial G2G     Ranking      the site is      Water has
                                 (based on        priority    (based on        one of        categorised
                                  Thames          list? 103     Thames        Thames        the site's FFT
                                  Water's                       Water's      Water's 157    performance.
                                combined                      combined        sites of
                                risk score)                   risk score)     concern
                                                               (2020) 104      (FFT)
         Sonning Common         36             No                                          Inconsistent (
                                                              10            Yes
                                                                                           2020)
         Thame                  37             No
         Stanford Rivers 105    38             No
         Buntingford            39             No                           Yes            Underperforming
         Hook Norton            40             No                           Yes            Underperforming
         Rusper                 41             Yes
         Forest Hill            42             Yes                          Yes            Underperforming
         Beddington             43             No             22            No
         Aylesbury 106          44             No             18            Yes            Inconsistent
         Chertsey               45             No                           Yes            Inconsistent
         Northleach             46             Yes                          Yes            Underperforming
         Bicester               47             No             23            Yes            Marginal
         Chipping Norton        48             Yes                          Yes            Inconsistent
         Pangbourne             49             Yes                          Yes            Marginal (2020)
         Marsh Gibbon           50             No             24            Yes            Marginal

        Source: Thames Water


3.39    The information shows that of those original top 50 highest risk sites, only 18 were
        included on the initial list of sites to prioritise for investment under the G2G programme,
        31 were still in the top 50 highest risk sites when the G2G assessment was repeated in
        2020 and 40 of these sites are also sites which Thames Water has identified as sites of
        concern based on its assessment of FFT data for 2020 and 2021.

3.40    Despite Thames Water's efforts since 2017 to assess and address compliance risks across
        its WWTW estate and, despite its plans to address these risks on a phased basis, the
        scale of potential non-compliance that the company identified during the course of our
        investigation at so many of its sites would appear to indicate that the company's
        compliance position, including its FFT compliance position, has failed to improve. This in
        turn indicates that the steps that Thames Water has taken to date have not been
        effective in resolving issues at many of its sites and, as a result, many of its sites are




  105
      While Stanford Rivers does not appear to have been one of the original list of high priority sites, it is
  one of the sites for which Thames Water has been developing a Compliance Action Plan.
  106
      Aylesbury and Compton WWTW were originally included on the high-risk priority list of sites but were
  "retired from the programme".

                                                       63
             Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                 on Thames Water

          likely to have been non-compliant or at risk of non-compliance for an extended period of
          time.

3.41      Thames Water has acknowledged that progress has been slow, even at its priority
          sites,107 and that steps to resolve issues had been subject to delay. At the priority sites, it
          told us that this was due to a number of unforeseen issues including changes to its
          supply arrangements and the implementation of a new capital delivery model 108, as well
          as the impact of Covid 19. According to Thames Water, these issues had resulted in a
          slow start to its delivery during AMP7.

3.42      More generally, Thames Water has also acknowledged that the investigative and
          remedial work that had been conducted as part of the G2G programme did not progress
          as quickly as had been intended at the time the programme commenced. 109 This, it
          seems, was due in part to the fact that as its investigations delved more deeply, it
          became clear that issues at many sites raised more complex issues and would require
          more complex solutions – and were therefore deferred to AMP8 (that is, 2025-2030).



  The causes of potential FFT non-compliance

3.43      In addition to information on the number of FFT potentially non-compliant sites, Thames
          Water was also asked to identify the root cause of non-compliance for each site –
          recognising that for some sites, multiple root causes might exist.

3.44      As noted previously, the company's understanding of its compliance position evolved
          during the course of our investigation as it found more sites of concern. Its ability to
          identify the root cause of potential non-compliance at its sites also evolved.

3.45      In its December 2021 section 203 response, for example, of the 104 sites of concern it
          reported at that point, it told us that 15 sites had already been resolved and that of the
          remaining 89 sites, root causes had been identified for 51 sites following a programme of


  107
      Compliance Action Plans have been developed for 19 these sites and have been discussed with the
  Environment Agency i.e. Bordon, Bracknell, Burstow, Chapmore End, Chipping Norton, Cranleigh,
  Crondall, Dorchester, Dorking, East Shefford, Guildford, Harpenden, Haslemere, Highworth,
  Northleach, Pangbourne, Shutford, Stanford in Vale and Worminghall. However, even by early 2023,
  many had still to be agreed and finalised.
  108
      Thames Water told us that its Board decided to exit its existing supply arrangement towards the end
  of AMP6 as it was not considered to be the best value for money or offer the control that it required as
  a client to best deliver for customers. It also told us that the AMP7 delivery contractual issues would be
  resolved with the implementation of the new delivery model. It explained that the need to migrate
  from AMP6 to its AMP7 Intelligent Client model had contributed to a relatively slow start to AMP7
  delivery. According to Thames Water, the new delivery model was intended to increase its internal
  capability and capacity and support its ability to make better decisions on capital projects.
  109
        Thames Water's response to follow-on questions dated 20 January 2023 (question 10).


                                                       64
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        comprehensive process workshops. It also told us it was intending to have completed
        the root cause analysis for the final 38 sites by February 2022.

3.46    In its April 2022 response to our section 203 notice, however, the number of potentially
        non-compliant sites reported by Thames Water had increased to 137 based on its
        assessment of data for 2021 and, at that time, it was unable to identify the root cause of
        the potential non-compliance for 93, or 68%, of those sites.

3.47    Following a further information request, in January 2023 Thames Water told us it had
        concluded its root cause analysis for all 157 sites of concern. The results of this analysis
        are shown in Table 3.3 below using a number of categories which Thames Water
        described as follows:

          •   Balancing tank capacity: The capacity of existing assets to meet the final
              effluent discharge permit when treating FFT. Thames Water noted that in some
              cases, historic improvements to its wastewater pumping network has resulted in
              higher peak instantaneous flows to the WWTW leading to a reduction in capacity to
              balance incoming flow;

          •   Monitor maintenance: Incorrect operation, maintenance and calibration issues
              associated with EDM and flow monitors leading to inaccurate data reads;

          •   Monitor installation: Faulty installation and monitors in sub-optimal locations;

          •   Lack of treatment resilience: Plant configuration with single points of failure,
              poor process capacity including lack of flow balancing, and redundancy. Thames
              Water noted that for sites where the diurnal flow pattern is very pronounced and/or
              some or all of the flow to the works is pumped, it is unable to reduce the variation
              in flow due to lack of flow balancing;

          •   Incorrect site and storm tank return locations: Site returns include liquors
              containing, for example, sludge and backwash from the treatment process being
              returned to the process upstream of flow to treatment measurement, wrongfully
              accounted for in the FFT measurement110;

          •   Poor flow control. Poor flow control which occurs when the physical mechanism
              or control system to ensure the site pass forward flow is accurate (neither passing
              too much or too little flow to treatment) is not working correctly. This could be due



  110
     As Thames Water set out in its document entitled 'EMS Briefing Pack: Compliance with storm
  discharge permit conditions at sewage treatment works, September 2021' process return flows and
  liquors should not enter upstream of the storm separation point or be allowed to spill directly into
  storm tanks. This would add to the volume of flow which may lead to inaccurate flow monitoring data
  and potentially premature storm separation and may be of high strength and therefore be more
  polluting if discharged to the environment.

                                                    65
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

                to a penstock actuator mechanical failure, leaving the penstock either too open or
                too closed;

          •     Hydraulic restriction. This is caused by pipes, channels or pumps used to carry
                the flow from one process unit to another not being of the correct size and causing
                the flow to back up and/or overflow; and

          •     Blockages. Blockages or restrictions observed on sites, where for example there is
                an accumulation of rags and/or grit in a pipe or channel, restricting or blocking the
                flow.

          Table 3.3: Root cause analysis for Thames Water's sites of concern
              Root cause                     Number of sites of concern (157)      % of sites
              Lack of treatment resilience                                113            72%
              Balancing tank capacity                                      67            43%
              Site returns                                                82             52%
              Storm tank returns                                           76            48%
              Poor flow control                                          130             83%
              Hydraulic restriction                                        75            48%
              Blockages                                                   59             38%
              Meter installation                                          143            91%
              Meter maintenance                                           137            87%

          Source: Thames Water.


3.48    While most sites had more than one root cause for potential non-compliance, Thames
        Water cited data quality issues, poor flow control, lack of treatment resilience and issues
        with site returns as the main causes identified.

3.49    The root cause categories used by Thames Water in its January 2023 response differ
        slightly to those used by Ofwat as part of our section 203 data requests. The following
        table shows information provided by Thames Water in December 2022. At that point,
        Thames Water was able to identify root causes for only 102 of the 157 sites of concern it
        had found. For these 102 sites, virtually all had multiple root causes. Site operating data
        was again highlighted as a key issue (94%) as was flow management (83%); site
        operating controls (79%) and asset resilience (65%). Hydraulic capacity was identified as
        a root cause for potential non-compliance at 36% of sites and maintenance at 28% 111.

3.50    While highlighting data quality issues as a factor at most of its sites of concern, Thames
        Water told us that it had done so to reflect the fact that while U_MON3 and U_MON4
        meters were being, or had been, installed at many of its sites, most had yet to be fully
        commissioned and in operational use and had yet to be certified. This, according to the

    Thames Water did not update this root cause analysis for all 157 sites of concern in subsequent data
  111

  submissions.

                                                     66
      Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                          on Thames Water

    company, meant that its ability to rely on the accuracy of data on a site's actual FFT
    compliance position would still be limited for some time yet.

Table 3.4 – Sites of concern: Summary of root causes by category
                                                                          No. of sites of     Percentage of
                                                                            concern          sites of concern
                                                                              (157)          sites where root
                                                                                             cause identified
                                                                                                   (102)
    Site operating controls
    Site operational control causes include but may not be limited to
    site flow control assets incorrectly set by operators or via                        81             79.4%
    instrumentation and/or assets operated that may often have
    transient impacts.
    Site operating data
    Site operating data causes include but may not be limited to
    inaccurate meter readings due to faulty installation and/or a lack                  96              94.1%
    of calibration, etc and failures of the telemetry to report/store
    data, that may often have transient impacts.
    Flow management
    Flow management causes include but may not be limited to
    inability to manage / balance flows including from terminal                         85             83.3%
    pumping stations and impacts of point of discharge of return
    liquors.
    Maintenance
    Operational maintenance causes include but may not be limited
    to asset maintenance, blockages (hydraulic restriction) due to rag                  29             28.4%
    and/or other debris, loss of capacity due to grit build-up and loss
    of power that may often have transient impacts.
    Asset resilience
    Asset resilience and renewal causes include but may not be
    limited to lack of asset / process redundancy, failure of aged &                    66             64.7%
    deteriorated assets and assets that are obsolete or not fit for
    purpose, e.g, screens incapable of passing flow.
    Hydraulic capacity
    Hydraulic incapacity causes include but may not be limited to
    insufficient hydraulic capacity of assets including pipework,
    distribution chambers, pumping plant and treatment process
    units or stage (including where an asset is the cause of a flow
                                                                                        37             36.3%
    restriction), treatment process unit not able to be operated at
    hydraulic capacity and meet water quality expectations. This root
    cause is about the installed capacity and excludes where the
    required level of capacity is not achieved due to inadequate
    maintenance.

    Multiple causes                                                                    101             99.0%

    Root cause to be determined                                                         55             35.0%




                                                       67
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

          Source: Thames Water.




  Other indicators of potential permit non-compliance

3.51    As explained above, although our investigation initially focused on Thames Water's
        compliance with its FFT permit conditions and what this indicated for the obligations
        Ofwat is responsible for enforcing, the information provided by Thames Water revealed
        further issues in the way that the company constructs, operates, maintains and
        monitors its WWTW to ensure its compliance with the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91.

3.52    The risk assessment Thames Water undertook in 2017 under its G2G programme had also
        highlighted potential compliance concerns in relation to other aspects of the operation
        of its WWTW (which we consider relevant indicators of the UWWTR compliance). This
        included the ability of its WWTW to treat sewage within permit limits, which, at that
        time, Thames Water acknowledged was "becoming increasingly challenging due to
        population growth, headroom erosion and tightening consents". It also acknowledged
        that "some sites were operating beyond their design capacity, as a result of historic
        growth or asset deterioration, and that a few sites might not be meeting permitted DWF
        levels". 112

3.53    In the following sections, we consider evidence we have obtained about other aspects of
        the company's management and operation of its WWTW.

  Dry Weather Flow

3.54    Data obtained during the course of our investigation confirmed the deterioration in the
        company's DWF compliance position with an increasing number of sites failing to meet
        DWF permit conditions in at least one year and an increasing number of sites seeing an
        erosion in headroom and therefore at greater risk of failing.

3.55    As set out in Section 2, WWTW with DWF environmental permit conditions are expected
        to be able to treat the Q80 113 flow and companies are expected to monitor whether a site
        is achieving this metric and to take action to investigate and remedy if it is not. While
        changes in weather from year to year means that it may not be possible for a WWTW to
        achieve the Q80 metric in each and every year, a prudent company should investigate
        any WWTW that fail to achieve Q80 to ensure that it understands why this is the case and



  112
      From Thames Water's document entitled 'Go to Green Flow Compliance Update, Environment
  Agency, 19 March 2018'
  113
      Q80 is calculated by taking the total flow for each day of the year and placing these flow numbers in
  ascending order. The Q80 is the flow on the day that is lower than 80% of the others, that is, the 20th
  percentile (or 73rd day). Q80 is intended to reflect the average dry day in the UK – if it never rained it
  would be Q50 but as it rains quite often, Q80 is considered to be the average dry day.

                                                      68
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        to consider whether the failure may indicate the existence of longer-term problems that
        the company needs to address.

3.56    If a site fails to treat the Q90 114 on a persistent or recurring basis (assessed on a three
        out of five years basis) then it is more likely that the site is unable to meet local demand
        in normal climatic conditions, that is, it does not have adequate capacity to deal with
        the volume of wastewater that it would normally, or routinely, be expected to deal with.

3.57    In response to our section 203 notices, Thames Water provided data on the number of its
        sites with DWF permit requirements and the number of those sites that had failed to
        meet Q80 flow and Q90 flow over the five-year period from 2017 to 2021.

3.58    Thames Water told us that 322 of its 354 WWTW have a DWF permit requirement and it
        provided data for 282 of these. This data showed that 78 of the sites for which Thames
        Water had provided data (28%) had failed to meet Q80 DWF permit conditions at least
        once in the 5-year period. In terms of compliance with Q90 flow levels, 46 of these sites
        (16%) had failed to meet Q90 DWF permit conditions at least once in those five years; 23
        sites (8%) had failed to meet Q90 twice in those five years; and 10 sites (4%) had failed
        to meet Q90 at least three times in that five-year period. 115

3.59    This evidence on the number of sites failing to meet Q80 and Q90 DWF permit limits at
        least once in the five-year period to 2021 is also consistent with concerns being flagged
        in discussions within the company itself. In a February 2022 report relating to DWF
        performance, for example, Thames Water noted that "currently we have 46 failing sites in
        total. If any of these sites fail for a second year then we could have at least 21 sites at
        'failed' status by end of 2025 (unless issues fully resolved)." 116 This position was also
        discussed at a Thames Water's internal Executive Performance Review meeting in
        February 2022, where it was noted that “as investment has not kept up with growth” the
        company could have more than 20 failing sites by 2025117. 118



  114
      The total daily volume that is exceeded by 90% of the recorded total daily volumes for each calendar
  year in cubic meters per day.
  115
      These sites are Ashton Keynes, Bilbury, Chieveley, Chilton Foliat, Great Gaddesden, Huntercombe,
  Lewknor, Longborough, Slough and Thornwood.
  116
       Environmental Compliance and Pollution Review, 4 February 2022 report for the South region (slides
  9 and 20). Documents provided by Thames Water as part of its response in August 2022.
  117
      Slide pack for Executive Performance Review meetings February 2022, meeting date 18th March
  2022 (slide 75).
  118
      Thames Water's business plan for PR24 included plans to invest £355 million to increase capacity at
  15 WWTW to "provide treatment capacity to a population equivalent to 96,700 people or 40,292 homes.
  This investment will allow us to remain compliant with our discharge permits." Page 115. As part
  Thames Water's PR24 Enhancement Case Sewage Treatment Waste Asset Assurance Programme
  (WAAP) it also sought additional funding of £53.5 million for 5 WWTW that it claimed had new
  requirements because of DWF increases. In our Final Determination for PR24, however, we noted that
  for these five WWTW, when queried, Thames Water stated the need for the investment is not driven by


                                                     69
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

3.60   In addition to an increasing number of failed sites, the data provided by Thames Water
       also indicated increased pressure on its WWTW and a continued erosion of headroom at
       a growing number of sites. Between 2017 and 2021, 83% of sites reported by Thames
       Water experienced an increase in DWF 119 and, over the same period, the average ratio
       between actual DWF and the DWF permit limit at Thames Water's sites increased from
       69% to 84%.

3.61   The following chart shows the increase in the proportion of Thames Water's sites where
       actual DWF was within 90-100% and >100% of the site's DWF permit requirements (this
       is based on the maximum actual Q80 flow for the period from 2017-2021). By 2021, for
       example, the proportion of Thames Water's sites that were operating between 90 and
       100% of DWF permit limits had increased to 15% and those operating beyond 100% of
       permit limits to 21%.

       Figure 3.1: Percentage of Thames Water's WWTW operating between 90-100%
       and over 100% of DWF (Q80)permit levels.

                                                50%
          % of Treatment Works with flow data




                                                40%


                                                30%
                                                                                  21%       >100%
                                                20%                        17%              90-100%


                                                10%   6%            7%
                                                             4%                   15%
                                                                           11%
                                                      8%     6%     7%
                                                0%
                                                      2017   2018   2019   2020   2021

3.62   As explained above, sites that are failing to meet Q80 permit levels are at greater risk of
       breaching UWWTR obligations relating to discharges as they are operating close to
       tolerance levels, and with little or no headroom. If a site is failing to meet Q80 permit
       levels, therefore, this should act as a trigger to prompt the company to check the
       operation of its assets at those sites and consider whether it has sufficient capacity to
       deal with local demand and also consider whether it needs to renew its assets and the
       associated DWF and FFT conditions within its environmental permit to reflect higher
       levels of demand on the site.




  growth but instead by increases to DWF. However, Thames Water did not provide an explanation of the
  cause of this DWF increase.
  119
      This, according to Thames Water, was due, in part, to the impact of Covid and the fact that people
  were working from home which resulted in increases in flows at some sites beyond normal levels.

                                                                     70
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

3.63   It is evident that sites that are operating with little or no headroom are at greater risk of
       discharging, with a consequent increased risk of causing environmental harm. Our
       analysis of the DWF performance data provided by Thames Water and the information it
       provided on spills from individual WWTW indicates that sites operating above DWF permit
       levels spill more frequently. In the case of Thames Water, its WWTW operating above
       their DWF permit levels have, on average, 13% more spills than those operating within
       their DWF permit levels.

  Storm tank capacity

3.64   In addition to the evidence about Thames Water's deteriorating position in relation to
       DWF, data provided to us by the company also indicates a deteriorating position in
       relation to the capacity of other assets to deal with the increasing volumes of
       wastewater that they are required to do.

3.65   As indicated in Section 2, in our investigation we have benchmarked the storm tank
       provision to a volume equivalent of six hours of DWF for the WWTW. Storing less than this
       would mean spills to the environment will likely be higher than would otherwise be the
       case as a company may not have sufficient storage capacity to prevent short-term high
       flow levels from leading to discharges to the environment. This in turn could indicate
       that a company is failing to comply with the requirements of the UWWTR as it would not
       be minimising adverse impacts on the environment to at least the degree originally
       expected by its environmental permit.

3.66   In Thames Water's case, in addition to concerns about FFT compliance at 157 of its sites,
       and potential DWF issues at a growing number of sites, in its January 2023 response on
       its root cause analysis, it also identified potential issues with storm tank capacity at
       more than a third of its sites of concern (that is, 57 sites or 36% of the sites of concern).

3.67   Separately, Thames Water also provided data on storage capacity at a number of its
       WWTW (but was not able to do so for all sites). For the 193 sites for which information
       was provided, 62% had storage capacity of six hours or less of permit DWF limit and so,
       are at greater risk of breaching permit conditions and spilling to the environment.



  Potential non-compliance with wider environmental and
  regulatory obligations

3.68   As explained in Section 2, a company must ensure that discharges of untreated
       wastewater to the environment, either directly or via storm tanks, only occur in
       exceptional circumstances unless it can demonstrate that there was no environmental
       harm or that there is no BTKNEEC compatible remedial action it can take. Where a spill
       does occur, a company is expected to mitigate any harm to the environment resulting
       from it, again subject to BTKNEEC. We also explained that non-compliance with these

                                                   71
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

       requirements might amount to a breach of Regulations 4(2) or 4(4) UWWTR (depending
       on whether the source of the discharge was the network or a WWTW), and consequently
       of section 94 WIA91. How a company considers and responds to its spills performance is
       also relevant to demonstrating the adequacy of its understanding, planning, resources
       and systems for managing its compliance, and therefore its broader duties under
       section 94 WIA91 and Condition P.

  Spills from storm overflows at Thames Water's WWTW and on its network

3.69   Water companies report spills data from the EDMs on their storm overflows to the
       Environment Agency and this is now published annually. Table 3.5 below shows spills
       data for 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 reported for storm overflows associated with Thames
       Water's WWTW as well as at its sewage pumping stations and on its network. The data
       does not distinguish between those spills which occurred within or outside of
       compliance with the conditions of Environment Agency permit and/or the UWWTR.

3.70   In its data returns for 2020 and 2021, Thames Water reported that close to 100% of its
       storm overflows had commissioned EDMs in place and that the vast majority were
       providing spills data. In its 2022 return, however, it listed an additional 312 storm
       overflows which had not previously been reported and which did not have EDMs in place.
       The vast majority (307) of these storm overflows were identified as being on Thames
       Water's network and it is understood that a significant number (196 120 or 36.5% of the
       537 network storm overflows that Thames Water listed) also did not have Environment
       Agency permits in place at the time of the reporting to the Environment Agency 121. As a
       result, the proportion of Thames Water's storm overflows with EDMs commissioned and
       reporting data, fell to just 61.8% in 2022 from 100% in 2021.

3.71   The identification of these un-monitored storm overflows (and notwithstanding that
       Thames Water now considers that some of these overflows were not "genuine" storm
       overflows) means that the actual level of spills reported by Thames Water from 2020 to
       2023 is unlikely to provide a full and complete picture of what was happening across its
       network. The actual number and duration of spills could, therefore, have been much
       higher 122.



  120 In its January 2024 response, Thames Water told us that while the figure for the number of

  unpermitted storm overflows was correct at the time of its annual return to the Environment Agency,
  by January 2024 it had reduced this number to 155 storm overflows.
  121 In its September 2024 response to our consultation, Thames Water told us that as a result of the

  investigations under its unpermitted CSO (uCSO) programme (which assesses whether the storm
  overflow is ‘genuine’ as opposed to another drainage asset such as a surface water outfall), its
  estimate of the number of unpermitted CSOs had reduced to 82. Of these, 26 have had permit
  applications submitted to the Environment Agency, with the remainder still under investigation.
  122 In its September 2024 response to our consultation Thames Water also claimed that it was "overly

  simplistic" for Ofwat to rely on its estimations that the actual level of spills across its network would


                                                      72
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

3.72   Nevertheless, it is clear that even based on data from the overflows that it was
       monitoring, the number and duration of spills reported by Thames Water was very high.
       In 2020, for example, it reported a total of 16,654 monitored spills events, lasting a total
       of 213,924 hours 123. This was equivalent to 36 spill events per monitored storm overflow
       on average, with each lasting an average of 12.8 hours. The data reported by Thames
       Water for 2021 from its monitored storm overflows showed an improvement from 2020,
       but numbers and duration of spills were still high. In 2021 it reported a total of 14,713
       spill events, lasting a total of 163,090 hours. In that year, there were 32 spill events per
       storm overflow on average with each lasting an average of 11.1 hours. While the data
       reported by Thames Water for 2022 showed a further improvement in the number and
       duration of spill events across its network and WWTW, this was due, at least in part, to
       the fact that 2022 recorded drier than average weather 124, and figures for 2023 showed a
       significant reversal in this downward trend. In 2023, the number of spill events recorded
       by Thames Water more than doubled relative to the 2022 figure to reach 16,990 events,
       with a total duration of 196,414 hours.

       Table 3.5: EDM Storm Overflow Annual Return to the Environment Agency:
       Summary Data, 2020 – 2023. All storm overflows reported 125
                                                               126
                                                                     2020   2021        2022         2023
         EDM device operation
         Total no. storm overflows listed in the annual               469   465          777     698 127 128
         return


  have likely been much higher on the basis of these overflows. As noted elsewhere, we disagree with
  Thames Water. In our view, it is reasonable to presume that, given the fact that so many of its storm
  overflows were not being monitored or managed by Thames Water, that the true scale of spills across
  its network is likely to have been higher than the figure it had previously reported to the Environment
  Agency.
  123 Thames Water told us that in in the summer of 2022 it re-submitted its 2020 annual return to the

  Environment Agency following improvements to its data assurance process. This resulted in a
  reduction of the total number of spills from 18,443 to 16,654 and a reduction in the total duration of
  those spills from 215,886 hours to 213,924 hours. However, it is understood that the Environment
  Agency had outlined to Thames Water that it would not update the record, and as such, the original
  spills figures are still publicly reported.
  124
      See for example, Environment Agency blog 'Storm overflow spill data shows performance is totally
  unacceptable', 31 March 2023.
  125
      Environment Agency Event Duration Monitoring – Storm Overflows – Annual Returns.
  126 The 2020 figures are based on the updated EDM return data that Thames Water provided.

  127 Thames Water listed 698 storm overflows in its annual return to the Environment Agency for 2023, of

  which 619 were reported to be "active storm overflows". According to the Environment Agency this is
  "to represent overflows where we would expect monitoring to be installed and removing overflows that
  are no longer operational".
  128 In its January 2024 response, Thames Water told us that as of January 2024, it considers that 226

  storm overflows serve agglomerations with a PE below 2,000 and that this included 35 of its 157 sites of
  concern. In its September 2024 response to the consultation on Ofwat's draft decision, Thames Water
  told us that following a further assessment, the number of its sites of concern serving agglomerations
  with a PE below 2,000 was 48. As noted elsewhere, Thames Water has argued that these sites should
  be excluded from our assessment of sites which have breached UWWTR. We have set out our


                                                          73
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

                                                               126
                                                                     2020     2021       2022       2023
       % overflows listed with EDM commissioned 129             98.3%         100%      61.8%       100%
       Total no. storm overflows with spill data                      461       461       472        610
       Storm overflow spill performance
       Total no. number of spill events                        16,654        14,713      8,014    16,990
       Average no. spills per storm overflow with spill              35.9      31.9       17.0       27.9
       data
       Total duration (hrs) of monitored spill events          213,924      163,090     74,693    196,414
       Average duration (hrs) per monitored spill                    12.8       11.1       9.3       11.6
       event
       % time operating [spilling] per overflow                  5.0%         4.0%       1.8%       3.7%
       (average) 130


       % with EDM installed & provided count data - 0           12.3%         8.9%      19.9%      19.0%
       spills
       % recorded 20 spills or more                             49.9%        50.8%      30.9%      39.2%
       % recorded 40 spills or more                             33.2%        30.6%      15.3%      24.4%
       % recorded 60 spills or more                             23.8%        19.7%       6.6%      17.5%
       Storm overflow spill reason 131
       No. of monitored storm overflows that spilled                  108      84 132      31        104
       >60 in one year
       Of those that spilt over SOAF 133thresholds of                 n/a     100%      100%        100%
       >60 in one year, % with a reason provided
       Of those that spilt over SOAF thresholds of >60                n/a          0        0          0
       in one year, what % due to exceptional
       weather?
       Of those that spilt over SOAF thresholds of >60                n/a      61%      38.7%      40.4%
       in one year, what % due to other operational
       (incl. asset maintenance)? 134



understanding of Regulation 4(2) and 4(4) UWWTR in section 2 and have explained how we have
assessed sites in terms of compliance with UWWTR in section 4. We have also addressed this in the
summary of responses to our consultation in Appendix A2.
129 According to the Environment Agency, for 2023 the total number (and percentage) of storm

overflows with EDM commissioned is calculated using the number of active storm overflows. In
previous years, all storm overflows were considered, including sites no longer active or with permits.
130 Percentage of the year that the average monitored overflow operated. This is calculated using the

average duration of a monitored overflow multiplied by the average number of spills per storm overflow
with spill data reported by the company and then multiplied by 24h x 365 days (8,760h).
131
    This data is taken from Table 5 of the Environment Agency's EDM Storm Overflow Annual Return
Summary Reports and numbers of sites that spilled >60 times from an analysis of Thames Water's
return for each year.
132
    Of these, 70 were storm overflows associated with Thames Water's WWTW and 14 were on its
network.
133
    Thames Water told us that, in parallel to its work on G2G, it has been studying over 130 sites in AMP7
as part of its SOAF programme. It also noted that it had increased the number of investigations
considerably in AMP7, beyond what was required in WINEP, and is starting to use the information
coming out of this programme to improve its understanding and prioritisation of sites to be addressed
as part of its wider spills reduction plan and to build its PR24 WINEP programme.
134 Operational reasons (including asset maintenance) are where the asset (storm overflow) and

potentially parts of the upstream and downstream sewer network have not operated as
designed/expected.

                                                          74
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

                                                                126
                                                                      2020   2021        2022         2023
         Of those that spilt over SOAF thresholds of >60               n/a   39%      58.1% 136   49.0% 137
         in one year, what % due to hydraulic capacity
         reasons? 135
       Source: Environment Agency EDM Annual Returns, Summary Reports.


3.73   These company-wide averages for the period from 2020 to 2023 showed that a
       significant number of Thames Water's monitored storm overflows had spilled frequently.
       According the Environment Agency's published reports, for example, 24% of Thames
       Water's storm overflows had spilled 60 or more times in 2020, 19.7% in 2021, 6.6% in
       2022 (a "dry year") and 17.5% in 2023 138.

3.74   For the storm overflows that recorded more than 60 spills (and therefore met the SOAF
       threshold), none was assessed by Thames Water as being due to exceptional weather 139.
       Indeed, the data shows that in 2021, 61% were identified by Thames Water as being due
       to operational and maintenance issues and 39% to hydraulic capacity reasons; in 2022,
       38.7% were due to operational and maintenance issues and 58.1% to hydraulic capacity
       reasons (with a number of others still being investigated) 140 and in 2023, 40.4% were
       due to operational and maintenance issues and 49% to hydraulic issues (with over 10%
       still being investigated). The reasons for high spills at Thames Water's sites are
       considered further below.

3.75   The significant increase in the number and duration of spills reported by Thames Water
       in 2023 may be due, in part, to the fact that 2023 was a wetter year. However, it may also
       reflect the fact that the 2023 data includes spills data from previously unmonitored
       storm overflows as Thames Water's return for 2023 shows that 100% of its active storm
       overflows had EDMs commissioned, compared to 62% in 2022. Nevertheless, while this
       may have been a factor in relation to recorded spills from network storm overflows
       (where the bulk of the unmonitored storm overflows were identified), the spills data



  135 Spill frequency primarily caused by hydraulic capacity issue rather than something that can be

  fixed operationally This indicates there is insufficient capacity (conveyance or storage) in the sewer
  network to cope with the wastewater flow plus typical rainfall entering the sewer network.
  136
      In 2022, 3.2% of sites which recorded more than 60 spills were given an N/A assessment due to
  ongoing investigation of the primary reason for the spills.
  137
      In 2023, 10.6% of sites which recorded more than 60 spills were given an N/A assessment due to
  ongoing investigation of the primary reason for the spills.
  138
      In some of its published statistics, the Environment Agency refers to 60 spills or more. However, the
  level of spills in an individual year which should trigger an investigation under SOAF is more than 60
  spills.
  139
      In the Environment Agency's EDM Storm Overflow Annual Return Summary Report for 2021 this is
  referred to as exceptional weather and in the 2022 Report as exceptional rainfall.
  140
      Thames Water told us that ground water infiltration and surface water ingress were the cause of
  more than half of spills from its overflow assets. While these are factors that the company should be
  identifying and managing as part of managing its compliance with its DWF and FFT permit
  requirements, we have also considered the issue of infiltration, and the steps that companies are
  expected to take to address it as part of the SOAF process, in more detail later in this section.

                                                           75
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        from storm overflows associated with Thames Water's WWWT also showed a significant
        increase on the previous year's levels.

  Spills from storm overflows associated with Thames Water's WWTW

3.76    Table 6 below shows spills data for monitored storm overflows associated with Thames
        Water's WWTW for 2021, 2022 and 2023 (where the EDM was reported as having =>90%
        operability).

        Table 3.6 – Number and duration of spills at storm overflows at WWTW
                                                                                 2021      2022      2023

         No. of storm overflows at WWTW                                           235       240        241
         No. of storm overflows at WWTW with data or EDM =>90% operability        226        215       221
         Total number of spills from storm overflows at WWTW with data and      10,151     5,270     12,017
         EDM with =>90% operability
         Average number of spills from storm overflows at WWTW with data          44.9      24.5       54.4
         and EDM with =>90% operability


         No. of storm overflows at WWTW spilling >60 times with EDM =>90%        64 141      23         91
         operability
         Total hours of discharge from storm overflow at WWTW spilling > 60    86,379     24,608    141,738
         % of storm overflows (for which spill data is available) at WWTW       28.0%     11.0%      41.0%
         spilling > 60


         No. of storm overflows at WWTW spilling > 40 with EDM =>90%              106        56         111
         operability
         Total hours of discharge from storm overflow at WWTW spilling > 40    114,039    44,665   152,880
         % of storm overflows (for which spill data is available) at WWTW       46.9%     26.0%      50.2%
         spilling > 40


         No. of storm overflows at WWTW spilling >= 20 with EDM =>90%             165       100        153
         operability
         Total hours of discharge from storm overflow at WWTW spilling >= 20   131,108    57,094    164,710
         % of storm overflows (for which spill data is available) at WWTW       73.0%     46.5%      69.2%
         spilling >= 20


3.77    This data shows that in 2021, 28% of the monitored storm overflows associated with
        Thames Water's WWTW recorded more than 60 spills – with a total duration of over
        86,000 hours. In the same year, almost 47% of storm overflows at its WWTW recorded
        more than 40 spills and 73%, or almost three quarters, recorded 20 or more spills. While
        numbers of spills fell in 2022, it is acknowledged that as this was a "dry year" this was not




    The number of storm overflows associated with Thames Water's WWTW that were reported to have
  141

  spilled more than 60 times in 2021 (so not adjusted to take account of EDM operability) was 70. These
  overflows are listed in Appendix A5 together with those sites that spilled 20 or more times.

                                                         76
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        necessarily representative of how a site was actually performing as spills would be
        expected to be much lower.

3.78    Figures for 2023 show a significant increase in the number and the duration of spills
        across Thames Water's WWTW estate. In that year, 91 storm overflows associated with its
        WWTW (41.0%) spilled more than 60 times. This was significantly higher than the
        number of sites spilling more than 60 times in 2022 and also in 2021. Even more striking
        was the increase in the duration of spills from these sites, with spills recorded to have
        lasted for a total of 141,738 hours in 2023. This was significantly higher that the duration
        of spills recorded in 2022 (considered a drier than average year) but was also 64% higher
        than the duration of spills from Thames Water's high spilling sites in 2021.

3.79    The figures for 2023 also show that over 50% of the storm overflows associated with
        Thames Water's WWTW spilled more than 40 times (for 152,880 hours) and 69.2% or
        more than two-thirds of its storm overflows recorded 20 or more spills in that year, for a
        total duration of 164,710 hours – again, levels that were significantly higher than those
        recorded in previous years.

  Spills from storm overflows on Thames Water's network

3.80    Table 3.7 below shows spills data reported by Thames Water for monitored storm
        overflows at its SPS and on its sewerage network for 2021, 2022 and 2023 - where the
        EDM was reported as having =>90% operability. As highlighted above, in its 2022 return
        to the Environment Agency, Thames Water identified 312 storm overflows which had not
        previously been listed and which did not have EDMs in place. The vast majority (307) of
        these were identified by Thames Water as being on its network. As a result, the data on
        spills from network storm overflows which the company reported to the Environment
        Agency, and is set out in Table 3.7, is likely to be lower than the true level of spills 142.

        Table 3.7 – Number and duration of spills at storm overflows at SPS and on the
        network
                                                                             2021       2022        2023

        No. of storm overflows within sewerage network 143                     230        537        457
        No. of storm overflows within sewerage network without data or EDM      36        341        211
        with < 90% operability
        No. of storm overflows within sewerage network with data and EDM       194       196         246
        with =>90% operability



  142
      As noted previously, in its September 2024 response to the consultation on our draft decision,
  Thames Water challenged the presumption that, given the number of storm overflows that were
  previously unidentified and unmonitored, the actual level of spills across Thames Water's network is
  likely to have been higher than reported to the Environment Agency as part of its annual EDM return.
  As also noted previously, in our view, this is a reasonable presumption to make.
  143
      Data includes spills from storm overflows at sewage pumping stations and on the network.

                                                         77
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

                                                                                    2021      2022    2023

        Total number of spills from storm overflows within sewerage network        3,538      2,021   3,283
        with data and EDM with =>90% operability
        Average number of spills from storm overflows within sewerage                18.2      10.3     13.3
        network with data and EDM with =>90% operability


        No. of storm overflows within sewerage network spilling > 60 with EDM        12 144       8       8
        =>90% operability
        Total hours of discharge from storm overflow within sewerage network       6,504      2,755   3,832
        spilling > 60
        % of storm overflows (for which spill data is available) within sewerage    6.2%       4.1%    3.2%
        network spilling > 60


        No. of storm overflows within sewerage network spilling > 40 with data         22        10      25
        or EDM =>90% operability
        Total hours of discharge from storm overflow within sewerage network        8,576     3,085    7,554
        spilling >40
        % of storm overflows (for which spill data is available) within sewerage   11.3%       5.1%   10.2%
        network spilling > 40


        No. of storm overflows within sewerage network spilling >= 20 with             62        32      60
        data or EDM =>90% operability
        Total hours of discharge from storm overflow within sewerage network       14,509     5,823   12,097
        spilling >=20
        % of storm overflows (for which spill data is available) within sewerage   32.0%      16.3%   24.4%
        network spilling >= 20


3.81    The data that was reported by Thames Water from its monitored network storm
        overflows showed that 6% of these overflows had recorded more than 60 spills in 2021,
        11.3% had recorded more than 40 spills and 32% had recorded 20 or more spills.
        However, as noted above, this is likely to under-report the true picture in relation to
        spills on its network.

3.82    The figures for 2022 and 2023 relating to the proportion of high spilling storm overflows
        on Thames Water's network are low relative to those from storm overflows associated
        with its WWTW. However, although Thames Water's return for 2023 now indicates that all
        its active storm overflows had EDMs commissioned, the data also shows that for the
        storm overflows on its network, just 54% of these had =>90% operability (with just 36.5%
        of EDM's on network storm overflows with >=90% operability in 2022). This points to
        potentially significant gaps in the availability of the data relating to spills from Thames
        Water's network storm overflows and the likelihood that the true level of spills actually
        recorded by Thames Water could be much higher.145


  144
      The number of storm overflows on Thames Water's network that were reported to have spilled more
  than 60 times in 2021 (so not adjusted to take account of EDM operability) was 14. These overflows are
  listed in Appendix A5 together with those that spilled 20 or more times.
  145
      As noted previously, in its September 2024 response to the consultation on our proposed findings,
  Thames Water claimed that it was "overly simplistic" for Ofwat to continue to rely on its estimations


                                                          78
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

  Spills at sites which Thames Water has identified as potentially non-compliant with
  FFT permit conditions.

3.83   As explained above, the data set out above relates to monitored spills reported by
       Thames Water to the Environment Agency as part of its annual EDM return and does not
       distinguish between spills which occurred whilst still meeting the conditions in the
       storm overflow's environmental permit, and those which occurred outside of those
       conditions.

3.84   As part of our investigation, therefore, Thames Water was also asked to provide data on
       the number and duration of spill incidents from storm overflows associated with WWTW
       which it had identified to us as potentially non-compliant with FFT permit
       requirements 146. Its estimates, based on its assessment of data for 2021 (which cover the
       137 sites which had been identified as potentially non-compliant using that 2021 data),
       are shown in Table 3.8 below.

3.85   Thames Water told us that these estimates were derived by using data from MCERTS FE
       flow meters and EDMs and the UKWIR assessment methodology 147. It analysed each spill
       event to determine what proportion of each event was potentially non-compliant but
       stressed that this was likely to be an over-estimation. It noted that, in practice, not all
       spills from a site would have necessarily been non-compliant with its permit and some
       spills might have occurred even if the site was meeting its FFT permit conditions. As a
       result, Thames Water explained that it was unable to definitively say that the spills
       reported had occurred as a result of potential permit non-compliance.




  that the spilling across its network would have likely been “much higher” than reported in our findings
  under the UWWTR (and Condition P and section 94 WIA91) in respect to its alleged failure to limit spills
  on the network. We disagree. In our view it is a reasonable assumption to make that if Thames Water
  had not identified these storm overflows previously, and was not monitoring and managing what was
  happening at these overflows, that the true scale of spills is likely to be higher that the figure reported.
  146
      This data relates only to storm overflows associated with Thames Water's WWTW and does not
  include storm overflows at SPS or on its network.
  147
      In assessing compliance, Thames Water told us that the approach used involves determining the
  approximate level at which effluent flow rate ‘plateaus’ during spill events. For an individual discharge
  event to be compliant, the plateau should exceed 92% of the FFT consent, once allowances have been
  made for the lag or delay in flows reaching the final effluent flow measurement location. The duration
  of each individual spill event at a site was analysed to determine potential compliance. For sites with
  an MCERTS flow monitor at the front end of the works, the permit condition of 92% of FFT 95% of the
  time was used to determine “compliance” for the purposes of finding duration of compliant vs non-
  compliant spills. For sites with a FE MCERTS flow monitor, the UKWIR guidance was followed, and
  analysis allowed for a 3-hour consideration of any attenuation through the works before determining
  compliance.

                                                      79
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water



       Table 3.8 – Number and duration of spills at sites of concern, 2021

                                                                                   Sites with
                                                                 Sites with
                                                                                   Temporary
                                                                 FFT permit                           Total
                                                                                    Deemed
                                                                 conditions
                                                                                    Consents

        Total Sites of Concern (2021 data only)                            115              22                137

        Total Sites with FFT permits or TDCs                               197              39                236

        No of spill incidents from sites with FFT/TDC                   9,094             1,574            10,668

        Estimated number of spill incidents occurring from
        FFT sites which have been identified as potentially             2,555              649      3,204 (30%)
        non-compliant with quoted FFT*

        Estimated duration of spill incidents occurring from
        FFT sites which have been identified as potentially            56,237            8,810             65,047
        non-compliant with quoted FFT (hrs)*

          *Thames Water noted that the number and duration of spills occurring due to potential non-compliance
          with FFT are likely to be an over-estimation as it assumed spills would not have occurred if the site was
          meeting FFT.


3.86   Using the approach outlined above, Thames Water estimated that there were 3,204
       unpermitted spill incidents as a result of potential FFT non-compliance at the 137 sites of
       concern and that these spills had lasted for over 65,000 hours.

3.87   Separately, Thames Water also provided spills data for all 157 of its sites of concern
       (which covers the period 2020 and 2021). The results, in terms of numbers of sites and
       frequencies of spills, are summarised in Table 3.9.

       Table 3.9 – Number and duration of spills at Thames Water's 157 sites of concern

                                                              Number of storm overflows at WWTW

        Frequency of spills from storm overflows                          2020                     2021

        40 + spills                                                          125                     88

        60 + spills                                                           97                     65

        90 + spills                                                           57                     26

        120 + spills                                                          21                       9



3.88   These figures confirm that a very significant proportion of the storm overflows at WWTW
       that Thames Water identified as having failed to meet FFT permit conditions on at least
       one occasion are high, or very high, spilling sites.



                                                        80
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water



  The reasons for high spills from Thames Water's storm overflows

3.89    As explained in Section 2, there are circumstances in which a site which has recorded a
        high number of spills may still be considered to have complied with UWWTR
        requirements relating to discharges because, for example, the spill took place in
        exceptional circumstances, the spill did not result in environmental harm or the
        company is able to demonstrate that the high spilling site is subject to a BTKNEEC
        exception.

3.90    In the following section, therefore, we consider evidence on the extent to which these
        exceptions may have applied and the extent to which Thames Water has taken all the
        steps it is required to take to remediate high spilling sites in accordance with BTKNEEC.

3.91    Storm overflows which have spill levels above the SOAF thresholds are expected to be
        investigated by the companies. As explained in Section 2, Stage 1 of the SOAF requires a
        company to identify the reasons for the spills (and forms part of a company's annual
        return to the Environment Agency in addition to data on the number and duration of
        spill). These reasons fall into the following categories:

          •   Exceptional rainfall: This does not refer to individual rainfall events, but rather the
              rainfall across the reporting year.

          •   Asset Maintenance: Where the storm overflow and potentially parts of the
              upstream and downstream sewer network have not operated as
              designed/expected, high spill counts (over 60 times per year) can be caused". 148

          •   Hydraulic capacity: If the reason for a high spilling storm overflow (over 60 times
              per year) is neither “exceptional rainfall” nor “asset maintenance” then the reason
              is classified under the “Hydraulic capacity” category. This indicates there is
              insufficient capacity (conveyance or storage) in the sewer network to cope with
              the wastewater flow plus typical rainfall entering the sewer network.

3.92    As set out in Table 3.5, Thames Water has not identified exceptional rainfall as the
        reason for spills above the SOAF threshold at any of its high spilling sites over the period
        from 2021 to 2023. Instead, asset maintenance was identified as the reason for high
        spills at a significant number of its sites - over 60% of high spilling sites in 2021, 38.7%
        in 2022 and 40.4% in 2023.



  148
     The Environment Agency lists a number of different asset maintenance categories or "Performance"
  reasons that companies can identify. These include Partial / no capacity due to blockage or restriction;
  Sewer collapse (partial / full); Groundwater inundation; Infiltration; Asset power failure; Pump failure /
  issue; Other maintenance / capital works; Asset configuration (e.g. Pumping Station/rising main/storm
  tanks); Data collection - EDM non-representative location.

                                                     81
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

  High spilling sites due to asset maintenance

3.93   Under the SOAF framework, if the cause of spills which was triggered under SOAF (for
       example, the site has recorded more than 60 spills in one year) is identified as being due
       to asset maintenance, the storm overflow is removed from the SOAF process at this
       Stage (Stage 1). The removal of these sites from the SOAF process reflects the fact that
       companies are expected to be able to resolve these issues within the calendar year as
       part of their ongoing operational and maintenance activities (activities that companies
       are already funded for under their price control base allowances).

3.94   The Environment Agency's published spills data would seem to indicate, however, that
       not only was asset maintenance the primary reason for high spills at the majority of
       Thames Water's storm overflows, but that issues at these sites were not resolved swiftly
       and that many of these sites continued to record a significant number of spills in
       subsequent years. For example, of the 84 storm overflows which were reported to the
       Environment Agency as having spilled over 60 times in 2021, at 52 of these sites 149
       Thames Water identified the reason for the spill as being due to asset maintenance
       issues, and of these 52 sites, 41 also recorded 20 or more spills in 2022, 31 recorded over
       40 spills and 15 recorded over 60 spills in 2022.

3.95   In its response to our draft decision, Thames Water told us that whilst asset
       maintenance may have been identified originally as the reason a site had spilled more
       than 60 times in 2021, this categorisaton may have changed subsequently if, as a result
       of further investigation, the actual cause of the spills was found to be due to hydraulic
       capacity issues. Thames Water told us that this was the case for three storm overflows
       associated with its WWTW and one storm overflow on its network150 (that is, so the
       number of high spilling sites spilling due to asset maintenance issues revised down from
       52 to 48).

3.96   Thames Water also told us that as part of our assessment we had "likely overstated" the
       number of its storm overflows which had failed to comply with the UWWTR. This is
       because, under SOAF, while sites which are high spilling due to asset maintenance
       issues are expected to be remediated within the calendar year, where infiltration is
       identified as the reason for the spill (which is also categorised as an asset maintenance
       issue), the SOAF states that "it is recognised that investigation and resolution of
       infiltration issues can be difficult, that solutions may be iterative, and that infiltration
       reduction plans may only succeed over the medium to long-term". 151 If infiltration has
       been identified as the reason for a site spilling more than 60 times in one year, the


  149 Of the 52 storm overflow sites that were high spilling in 2021 due to operational and maintenance

  reasons, 48 were storm overflows associated with Thames Water's WWTW and four were network storm
  overflows. Based on the updated figures provided by Thames Water, these figures were revised to 45
  and three respectively.
  150
      Bledington WWTW, Gerrards Cross WWTW, Selborne WWTW and Wardington SPS.
  151
      SOAF, page 6 (water.org.uk).

                                                    82
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         company is expected to develop an infiltration reduction plan (IRP) to address the
         problem.

 3.97    As part of our investigation, therefore, we sought further information from Thames
         Water on the number of its storm overflows where infiltration had been identified as the
         reason for the site spilling more than 60 times in 2021. We also requested details of
         whether an IRP was in place for the particular storm overflow; the date the plan had
         originally been developed and when it was last reviewed; whether the plan had been
         agreed with the Environment Agency; and information on the company's progress in
         delivering that plan and the actions it has taken to resolve infiltration issues at its sites.

 3.98    Thames Water told us that of the 48 storm overflows which had spilled more than 60
         times in 2021 due to asset maintenance issues, 19 were identified as being due to
         infiltration 152. It also told us that these sites either have an IRP in place, which has been
         agreed with the Environment Agency, or it has a Groundwater Impacted System
         Management Plan (GISMP) which has been developed in collaboration with, and
         reviewed by, the Environment Agency. All of these plans are reviewed annually and
         updated reports are published on Thames Water's website 153.

   High spilling sites due to hydraulic capacity reasons

 3.99    Under the SOAF framework, if the cause of the high spills at a storm overflow is
         identified as being due to hydraulic capacity reasons at Stage 1 of the process, the storm
         overflow continues to Stage 2. This requires the company to investigate and quantify the
         environmental impacts resulting for the high spilling storm overflow (including aesthetic
         impact and the effect on macroinvertebrates, as well as, in some instances, the effect
         on water quality), and then, if appropriate, to identify options to address the cause of the
         high spills and to assess the costs and benefits of those options (Stage 3 of the SOAF
         process). Where a cost beneficial option is found to exist, under the SOAF framework,
         companies are then required to develop plans to prioritise and deliver the necessary
         improvements.

3.100    As part of the company's annual return to the Environment Agency, it is also asked to
         provide information on any action taken or planned for those sites which are high
         spilling sites due to hydraulic capacity issues and the status and timeframe for those
         plans. This information typically indicates which stage of the SOAF investigation process




   152
      In its 2021 EDM to the Environment Agency, the number of storm overflows spilling more than 60
   times due to infiltration was 24 sites – 21 associated with Thames Water's WWTW and 3 on its network.
   Following further investigation, As noted previously, Thames Water subsequently determined that at 4
   sites, the cause of the spill was hydraulic capacity and at one site, it was a non-infiltration asset
   maintenance issue.
   153 Thames Water's drainage strategies.


                                                     83
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

        the site has reached and, if appropriate, whether the site is being investigated, or
        already due to be improved, as part of another programme such as WINEP.

3.101   In addition to the information contained in the Environment Agency's annual reports,
        Thames Water also provided information on the investigations that have taken place
        under the SOAF framework to identify and assess the reasons for spills from its high
        spilling sites. This included a spreadsheet listing 169 sites which had been triggered for
        investigation under the SOAF over the period from 2018 to 2022. These storm overflow
        sites, as well as some high level information on how they have been progressed through
        the SOAF process, are listed in Appendix A6.

3.102   As with its annual returns to the Environment Agency, the information provided by
        Thames Water also shows that the reason for the high spills at a very significant number
        of its storm overflows was due to asset maintenance issues, with 107 (63%) of the sites
        investigated by Thames Water over this period not progressing beyond Stage 1 of the
        framework154.

3.103   Of the 62 storm overflows that were progressed to Stage 2 of the SOAF (to assess for
        environmental and water quality impacts), the information provided by Thames Water
        shows that at 52 of these sites (84%) the spills had had an environmental impact and at
        23 sites (37%) had had a severe impact on water quality.

3.104   According to the information provided by Thames Water in April 2024, 58 of the 62 sites
        had progressed to Stage 3 of the SOAF at that point and, for the majority of those sites
        listed, options for remediation had been identified and costed and the site had also been
        allocated within a remediation programme (WAAP 155, WINEP or SODRP) - three sites
        were pending completion of Stage 2 ecological surveys 156.

3.105   For the 25 storm overflows which Thames Water confirmed had spilled more than 60
        times in 2021 due to hydraulic capacity issues 157 the published EDM returns for 2022 and
        2023 indicated that the majority of these sites were still at various stages of the SOAF
        process. However, in the separate information provided by Thames Water on its SOAF
        investigations, which is summarised in Appendix A6, it would appear that solutions to


   154 107 (63%) of the 169 sites listed did not progress beyond Stage 1 as the reason for the high spill was

   identified as being due to operational or maintenance reasons. Of these, 2 sites were marked as
   "resolved", 9 due to data errors, 28 due to operational, 49 due to "operational ongoing scheme", 16
   marked "hydraulic ongoing scheme" and 3 as "mix of operational and hydraulic ongoing scheme".
   155
       In its January 2024 response Thames Water told us "for completeness" that the list of overflows
   within its SOAF Summary spreadsheet does not include all 157 'sites of concern' as some of the storm
   overflows associated with these WWTW have not exceeded the SOAF thresholds.
   156
       For those storm overflows which progressed to stage 3, the information provided by Thames Water
   lists preferred solutions such as FFT increase, storm tank increase, "in network storage" or a hybrid of
   these.
   157
       This includes three storm overflows which had previously been categorised as high spilling due to
   infiltration.

                                                       84
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         address the cause of the high spills had been identified and costed at 19 of these storm
         overflows. These sites are highlighted in the table in Appendix A6.


   Pollution incidents

3.106    As set out in Section 2, in our view, we would expect that a reasonable company would
         have systems in place to enable it to have sufficient oversight of what is happening at its
         WWTW and on its network and the extent to which its assets are operating as they
         should do to minimise any adverse impact on the environment.

3.107    Thames Water has claimed that it was a lack of accurate data on what was happening
         across its network that impacted negatively on its ability to understand its compliance
         position. However, in our view, the data that was already available to Thames Water
         should have highlighted concerns about how its assets were operating and should have
         triggered more rigorous and urgent investigation. This is particularly so given the known
         compliance risks that the company was already aware of as a result of its G2G risk
         assessment and also, given the fact that the company had been the subject of previous
         enforcement action as a result of a series of serious pollution incidents arising from
         failings at its WWTW and on its network 158.

3.108    Despite these past prosecutions, Thames Water's performance in terms of pollution
         incidents has remained a cause of significant concern. In 2021, for example, it was
         downgraded from a 3* to a 2* rated company (that is, one that requires improvement)
         by the Environment Agency in its annual Environmental Performance Assessment
         (EPA) 159. Figures for 2022 and 2023 160 show that its environmental performance
         continued to be disappointing and it remained a 2* rated company.

3.109    The downgrade in the company's EPA rating has been due in large part to the number of
         serious (Category 1 & 2) 161 pollution incidents that the company has been reporting. In
         2021, for example, it recorded 12 serious pollution incidents. Of these, six serious
         pollution incidents were associated with its WWTW and of these, three were at WWTW




   158
       Thames Water has been prosecuted for a number of serious pollution incidents in recent years. In
   2017 it received a record fine of £20.3 million relating to the discharge of untreated sewage into the
   Thames and has also received fines in subsequent years for incidents dating from around the same
   period – the latest being a £3.3 million fine in July 2023. As a result of this latest prosecution,
   Thames Water has been fined a total of £35.7 million since 2017 as a result of its pollution incidents.
   159
       The Environmental Performance Assessment (EPA) was introduced by the Environment Agency in
   2011 as a non-statutory tool for comparing performance between water and sewerage companies
   operating wholly or mainly in England. It uses measurable environmental metrics to provide a
   comparison of performance across the companies.
   160 Water and sewerage companies in England: environmental performance report 2023
   161
       Incidents assessed as having a major (category 1) or significant (category 2) impact on the water
   environment.

                                                      85
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         that have been identified as amongst the company's top polluting sites (that is, Little
         Marlow 162, Witney and Chinnor).

3.110    Figures for 2022 showed a further increase, to 17, in the total number of serious pollution
         incidents from sewerage and water supply assets reported by Thames Water. According
         to the Environment Agency 163, Thames Water was the worst in the sector for this metric
         as it accounted for over 38% of all Category 1 and 2 incidents reported by the sector in
         that year. Of the 17 serious pollution incidents it recorded, the majority were from its foul
         sewer network and rising mains and two were from its WWTW. Figures for 2023 show
         that Thames Water recorded 14 serious pollution incidents (and it remained the worst in
         the sector in terms of this metric), and 32 total pollution incidents.

         Figure 3.2: Annual number of serious pollution incidents (Category 1 and 2)

           25



           20



           15


                                22
           10     20
                                       16                                                         17
                         15                                                  15                          14
                                              12                                    13     12
            5                                        10       10      9



            0
                 2011   2012   2013   2014   2015   2016      2017   2018   2019   2020   2021   2022   2023

          Source: Environment Agency EPA report 2022, 2023.


3.111    It is also clear from data provided by Thames Water in response to our section 203
         notices that a relatively small number of its WWTW are responsible for the bulk of the
         pollution incidents it has recorded. This data shows that just 26 of its WWTW have been
         the source of 50% of all its pollution incidents over the eight-year period from 2014 to
         2021 (what Thames Water refers to as "the top 26"). This includes 13 sites which have
         caused more than a third (34%) of all pollution incidents ("the top 13") and 13 which


   162
       Little Marlow was one of the sites subject to £20.3 m fine in 2017. In its September 2022 response to
   a follow-on information request, Thames Water told us that the pollution incident at Little Marlow in
   2021 was related to a specific asset failure of a final settlement tank and the re-instatement of that
   asset on the performance of the works. It also told us that the incident was not directly related to FFT
   compliance and had a differing root cause to the incident for which it was prosecuted in 2017.
   163
       Water and sewerage companies in England: environmental performance report 2022

                                                       86
  Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                      on Thames Water

have caused 16% of incidents ("the next 13"). These sites are listed in the following
graphic together with information on the number and category of pollution incidents
recorded at each of these WWTW for each year between 2014 and 2021. As the table
illustrates, a number of these sites have been the source of repeated pollution incidents
over successive years.




                                            87
                                   Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                       on Thames Water


Table 3.10: Thames Water's 'top 26' highest polluting sites.
                       2014             2015          2016               2017                 2018              2019              2020              2021          Total   G2G



                 Cat     Cat        Cat 3   Cat   Cat 3    Cat       Cat 3   Cat        Cat       Cat       Cat 3   Cat       Cat 3   Cat       Cat 3   Cat
                 3       1&2                1&2            1&2               1&2        3         1&2               1&2               1&2               1&2


 Top 13
 Aldershot         1           1        2             3                  1                                      1         1       1                 1                12
 Slough            5                    5              1                                                                          2                 1                14
 Little Marlow     1                    1                                                                                                                     1      3
 Aylesbury         2                    1                                                     2                                   2                                   7
 Henley            5                                             1                                                                2                                  8
 Basingstoke       1                                                                          3                 3                 2         1                       10
 Burghfield        1                                                     1                                      2                 4                 1                9
 Fleet             1                    1              1                 1         1                                              2         1       1                9    Yes
 Witney            4           1                       1                                      1                 1                 1         1                 1      11
 Camberley         6                                                                                                      1       1                 1                9    Yes
 Chinnor           1                                                                          2                                   1                           1      5    Yes
 Lightwater        2                                             1                                              1                                                     4
 Swindon                                1              1                                      2                 2                           1                         7


 Next 13
 Bordon            2                                                                          2                 1                 1                 2                8    Yes
 Earlswood                              2                                                               1       1                                   1                5
 Bracknell                                                                                    2         1       1                 1                                  5    Yes
 Crawley                                                                 1                                      3                                                     4
 Esher             3                    1                                                                                                                             4
 Farnham           1                                   1                                      1                 1                 1                                  5
 Maple Lodge       1                                             1                                              2         1                         2                 7
 Newbury           2                    1                                1                                      1                                   1                6    Yes



                                                                                   88
                            Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                on Thames Water

                    2014         2015          2016           2017                 2018          2019          2020          2021      Total   G2G



              Cat     Cat    Cat 3   Cat   Cat 3    Cat   Cat 3   Cat        Cat       Cat   Cat 3   Cat   Cat 3   Cat   Cat 3   Cat
              3       1&2            1&2            1&2           1&2        3         1&2           1&2           1&2           1&2


Oxford           1                                            1                    2                                         3             7
Reading                                                                            1             3                                         4
Crossness                                                               1          1             1             1             3             7
Hogsmill         1                              1                                  2                                                       4
Holmwood         1               1                                                               2                           1            5
Source: Thames Water.




                                                                        89
              Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                  on Thames Water



3.112      The table also shows that just six of these top 26 polluting sites were included in Thames
           Water's priority list for investment under the G2G programme. This, according to Thames
           Water, is because the original G2G assessment took place in 2017, and therefore
           predated its ‘top 26’ assessment and also examined multiple risk factors other than just
           pollutions. It also stressed that all 26 sites listed are subject to further investigation and
           investment as part of the company's Pollution Incident Reduction Plan ("PIRP") 164.
           However, given the latest numbers on pollution incidents being reported by Thames
           Water it would appear that the actions that Thames Water has taken to address and
           reduce incidents have not been effective as yet.

3.113      In addition to the information on the top 26 polluting sites listed above, we also asked
           Thames Water to provide data on the number and category of pollution incidents for
           each site with FFT permits or TDC over the same eight-year period from 2014 to 2021; to
           indicate how each of these sites had scored under the G2G risk assessment; whether
           the site had been included as part of the G2G priority list and whether the site has now
           been identified as a site of concern by Thames Water.

3.114      In the following table, the information provided by the company 165 is filtered across
           these different categories. It shows, for example, how many of the sites which were
           included amongst Thames Water's top 100 ranked sites under its most recent G2G
           assessment of compliance risk were also included amongst the company's top 26
           polluting sites. In addition, it shows whether that site was included as part of the G2G
           priority list of sites and whether it has also been identified by Thames Water as a site of
           concern.

3.115      The results of this analysis show that 19 of the top 100 ranked sites were amongst the
           top 26 polluting sites in terms of compliance risk. Of these only one had been included in
           Thames Water's G2G priority list and 16 of these 19 sites have also been identified as
           sites of concern.

           Table 3.11: List of Thames Water's sites which are amongst its top polluting sites
           and how sites had been assessed in terms of potential compliance risks.
                                                          Priority
                                             G2G Rank                  Site of
                                                         list (Sept               "Top 26"
                                              (2020)                  concern
             WWTW                                           2018)
             Camberley                           2           No         Yes         Yes
             Bracknell                           3           Yes        Yes         Yes
             Slough                              4           No         No          Yes
             Chinnor                             13          No         Yes         Yes
             Newbury                             14          No         Yes         Yes



   164
         Thames Water Pollution Incident Reduction Plan.
   165
         Thames Water response to question 19, July 2022 response to follow-on section 203 notice.


                                                        90
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

                                                      Priority
                                         G2G Rank                  Site of
                                                     list (Sept               "Top 26"
                                          (2020)                  concern
         WWTW                                           2018)
         Aylesbury                           18          No         Yes         Yes
         Maple Lodge                        20           No         Yes         Yes
         Hogsmill                            21          No         Yes         Yes
         Burghfield                         35           No         Yes         Yes
         Oxford                             40           No         Yes         Yes
         Esher                              49           No         Yes         Yes
         Witney                             50           No         No          Yes
         Bordon                             60           No         Yes         Yes
         Farnham                            78           No         No          Yes
         Fleet                              83           No         Yes         Yes
         Earlswood (Reigate)                89           No         Yes         Yes
         Aldershot                          97           No         Yes         Yes
         Basingstoke                        99           No         Yes         Yes
         Swindon                            100          No         Yes         Yes
        Source: Thames Water


3.116   This again underlines the fact that many of the sites which had been identified as
        having compliance risks under Thames Water's G2G programme – but which were not
        prioritised for investment – are sites which are among Thames Water's sites of concern
        and also among its highest polluting sites.

3.117   While we recognise that there may be multiple reasons why individual pollution
        incidents occur, some of which may not have a direct causal link to a site's failure to
        meet FFT or DWF permit conditions, the fact that many sites have repeatedly been the
        source of these incidents – and over such an extended period of time - suggests that
        Thames Water has failed to address underlying issues with sufficient urgency.


   Stakeholder concerns

3.118   Against this backdrop of ongoing issues in relation to its environmental performance and
        increased pollution incidents, Thames Water has also been the subject of significant and
        sustained criticism from several environmental non-governmental organisations
        (eNGOs) and community groups relating to the frequency and duration of spills of
        untreated sewage to local waterways and the company's alleged failure to invest
        adequately to cater for the growth in population in its region.

3.119   Citizen scientists and volunteers working with Windrush Against Sewage Pollution
        (WASP), for example, have played a key role in raising awareness of longstanding
        compliance issues and advocating for change. This has included collecting and
        analysing data on flow and sewage spills at Thames Water's sites over a number of years.
        WASP claims that its analysis of data from 2017 - which was gathered from Thames
        Water and the Environment Agency using Environmental Information Regulation (EIR)


                                                    91
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         requests - demonstrates that the company has routinely been discharging untreated
         sewage from its WWTW outside of its permit conditions. This includes spills during dry
         weather (which WASP categorise as "dry spills") or when it has failed to meet its FFT
         conditions (which WASP categorise as "early spills") 166.

3.120    We are aware that WASP has been in contact with Thames Water to raise its concerns
         about these issues for some time and has submitted a number of EIR requests to obtain
         information on the performance of the company's WWTW. WASP has argued that the
         responses to these requests have revealed gaps or inconsistencies in the information
         that Thames Water has been able to provide and have demonstrated the company's poor
         record keeping and its inability to oversee the installation of EDMs to accurately record
         spills of sewage from its sites. As outlined previously, Thames Water has acknowledged
         that there were problems with the installation and maintenance of its EDM monitors,
         which meant that the company could not rely on the accuracy of the data being
         collected from those monitors.

3.121    WASP's analysis has also been shared with Thames Water and has been used as part of a
         campaign to raise public and political awareness of these issues. It is understood that
         there has been some discussion and debate about the accuracy of WASP's analysis and
         its interpretation of what the flow and spills data is showing about Thames Water's
         potential breaches of its permit conditions. Nevertheless, it is clear that local groups and
         eNGOs have been raising serious concerns with the company about discharges of
         untreated sewage from its WWTW for several years and about the impacts that these
         discharges are having on local waterways. It is also clear that at least some of these
         concerns are supported by the evidence set out above about the scale, duration and
         scope of potential non-compliance with environmental permits that Thames Water has
         now identified across its WWTW estate. Indeed, most of the 24 sites that WASP had
         included in its list of sites with unpermitted spills (and which its analysis had indicated
         had recorded "dry" or "early" spills), are also sites which Thames Water's assessment has
         now shown to be sites of concern.

3.122    A number of other organisations have also publicly expressed their concerns about the
         performance of Thames Water's WWTW, about the scale and duration of discharges of
         untreated sewage from its WWTW and about the consequences of these discharges for
         the local environment and communities. In January 2022, for example, the Oxford River
         Improvement Campaign (ORIC) published a report entitled "The rivers around Oxford


   166
      WASP Review of Unpermitted Spills from Sewage Treatment Works, Part 1. October 2021. This
   research highlighted concerns about spills at the following WWTW: Stanton Harcourt, Oxford, South
   Leigh, Mogden, Fairford, Chipping Norton, Carterton, Hogsmill, Princes Risborough, Ampney St Peter,
   Cassington, Aylesbury, Lechlade and Pangbourne. In Part 2 of its review in January 2022, WASP
   highlighted concerns about unpermitted spills at a number of other Thames Water WWTW, namely;
   Bentley, Bledington, Chesham, Chinnor, Church Hanborough, Dorking, East Shefford, Maple Lodge,
   Marlborough and Witney.


                                                     92
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         2020" in which it drew on information from the Environment Agency, Thames Water and
         the National Rivers Trust to collate and analyse data about 148 WWTW around Oxford.

3.123    In that report, ORIC concluded that untreated sewage is being discharged from Thames
         Water's WWTW "at an alarming rate" and outside of storm conditions, including during
         periods of low or no rainfall events. In ORIC's view, the underlying cause of the
         discharges is not storms or heavy rainfall, but a shortage of capacity at Thames Water's
         WWTW, caused by increasing population and Thames Water's failure to invest in
         significant new capacity over the last 15 years.

3.124    It is understood that Thames Water challenged aspects of the approach adopted by ORIC
         and the conclusions that ORIC reached in its report about the nature and scale of
         discharges of untreated sewage from its WWTW. In its response, for example, Thames
         Water acknowledged that shortage of treatment capacity and a growing population can
         be important factors in causing discharges from its WWTW, but noted that, nevertheless,
         the underlying root cause is ground / surface water and rain entering the sewers 167.
         According to Thames Water, this in turn meant that there were a range of different
         interventions that could be made to reduce the amount of water entering the system
         apart from investment in additional capacity which may not always be the most cost
         effective or efficient solution. Thames Water noted that in seeking to solve the problem
         of excess flows it employs a combination of measures as there is no one ‘correct’ answer
         and each location needs to be assessed separately, looking at local conditions relating to
         infrastructure, topography and geology, and assessing the most cost-effective way to
         solve the problem (though, as explained earlier, it has also acknowledged potential
         issues with headroom capacity at an increasing number of its sites).

3.125    In addition to the concerns highlighted above, other groups have also been sharing their
         experiences about the impact that discharges from Thames Water's WWTW have been
         having on local watercourses. In written evidence for the House of Commons
         Environmental Audit Committee report on water quality in rivers 168, for example, the
         Upper Thames Fisheries Consultative committee (UTFC) pointed to the deterioration in
         water quality of the Cotswold rivers and the loss of biodiversity in terms of fish species,
         riverine invertebrates and in stream macrophytes. UTFC claimed in its evidence that the
         principal cause of this ongoing degradation has been the repeated, increased and
         continuing discharge of untreated sewage into all of the rivers in question – the source
         of which was Thames Water's WWTW. This view was also echoed in its written evidence
         to the Committee by the Thame Valley Fisheries Preservation Consultative, which also




   167
       In its December 2021 response, Thames Water told us that groundwater infiltration and surface
   water ingress account for more than half of the spills from its overflow assets.
   168
       House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee: Water Quality in Rivers. Fourth Report of
   Session 2021–22. Report, together with formal minutes relating to the report. Ordered by the House of
   Commons to be printed 5 January 2022.

                                                     93
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        pointed to discharges of untreated sewage from Thames Water's WWTW as the main
        cause of pollution and degradation of river water quality in their areas.

3.126   The evidence provided and issues raised by various eNGOs and stakeholder groups has
        been helpful in highlighting areas for our own investigation and information gathering.
        However, our findings rely upon our own analysis of monitoring data and data provided
        by Thames Water.

   Summary of evidence relating to the performance of the company's
   wastewater assets

3.127   As set out in the preceding sections, we have received and considered a range of
        evidence and information on the performance of Thames Water's WWTW and its
        wastewater network. This has revealed a number of concerns, across a range of different
        metrics and indicators that are relevant to understanding whether the company is
        complying with its legal obligations relating to discharges to the environment. In
        summary, the evidence shows that:

          •   Two thirds of all its WWTW with FFT permit conditions or TDC (157 sites) have been
              identified by Thames Water as sites of concern with respect to their permit
              compliance.

          •   88 of these sites were identified as clearly underperforming and appear to be
              incapable of meeting FFT permit conditions, while a further 69 sites, while having
              the capacity to meet FFT permit conditions, were not doing so on a consistent
              basis.

          •   Ten sites have failed to meet DWF permit conditions and Thames Water
              acknowledged that the number could increase to more than 20 by 2025 if issues
              are not addressed.

          •   A growing number of sites have already seen significant headroom erosion and are,
              therefore, at risk of failing to meet DWF conditions. This, in turn, increases the risk
              of unpermitted spills of untreated sewage from these sites.

          •   57 sites (or more than a third of its sites of concern) have been identified by
              Thames Water as having insufficient storage tank capacity, and over 60% of sites
              for which it was able to provide data had storage capacity of six hours or less of
              permit DWF limit. These sites are, therefore, at greater risk of breaching permit
              conditions and of unpermitted spills of untreated sewage.

          •   Thames Water has reported high number of spills from its storm overflows – but
              these numbers are likely to under-report the true scale of spills which have
              actually occurred across its wastewater network.



                                                    94
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       •   In 2021, almost 30% of storm overflows associated with its WWTW spilled more than
           60 times; and almost three quarters (73%) spilled 20 or more times.

       •   Thames Water does appear to have taken steps to investigate the high spilling
           sites which were triggered under the SOAF and for the 25 169 storm overflows
           associated with its WWTW which had spilled more than 60 times in 2021 due to
           hydraulic capacity issues, it appears to have identified and costed remediation
           solutions for 19 of these sites – though those solutions are not due to be
           implemented until AMP8.

       •   In addition, the SOAF investigations also showed that the majority of spills at the
           high spilling storm overflows associated with its WWTW were due to asset
           maintenance issues (over 60% of sites which had spilled more than 60 times in
           2021) and the majority of those sites continued to record 20 or more times in the
           following year – indicating that Thames Water had failed to act swiftly to resolve
           issues as it is required to do under SOAF.

       •   Thames Water has told us that infiltration was the reason for the spills at 17 of the
           sites where asset maintenance was the reason for the site spilling more than 60
           times. Under SOAF it is accepted that it may taken longer to address infiltration
           issues than other asset maintenance issues, nevertheless, companies are
           expected to develop plans to identify and address the causes of infiltration at its
           sites. While Thames Water has infiltration reduction plans in place for all 17 of the
           sites referred to above, at eight of those sites, there was no evidence that it had
           taken any particular action (apart from investigations) to reduce the risk of spills
           from those sites.

       •   In relation to spills at storm overflows on Thames Water's wastewater network, the
           reported number of spills were significantly lower than at its WWTW. However, the
           actual number of spills from these storm overflow could be significantly higher.
           This is because in its 2022 return to the Environment Agency the company listed
           307 storm overflows on its network that had not previously been included in its
           annual return and did not have EDMs in place. It also revealed that 196 of these
           overflows did not have environmental permits. While Thames Water has now
           developed a programme to investigate these overflows and, as a result, has
           reduced its estimate of the number of storm overflows that are actually
           unpermitted, it nevertheless, underlines the fact that, until recently, the company
           did not have sufficient oversight and management of its assets and was therefore
           failing to ensure that its assets were being managed to minimise the risk of any
           adverse impact on the environment.




  As noted previously, Thames Water told us that three storm overflows associated with its WWTW
169

which were originally thought to have spilled due to infiltration and reported in its 2021 EDM return to
the Environment Agency were subsequently recategorized as having spilled due to hydraulic capacity.

                                                   95
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

           •   Despite the fact that up to July 2023 Thames Water had been fined in excess of
               £35million 170arising from a series of serious pollution incidents since 2017 as a
               result of Environment Agency prosecutions, the number of serious pollution
               incidents reported by the company has remained worryingly high and is expected
               to remain high for the remainder of AMP7.

           •   Thames Water has been the focus of increasingly vocal complaint from local
               stakeholder groups and eNGOs about the number and frequency of spills from its
               WWTW and across its network.



   Thames Water's processes and procedures for identifying and
   addressing compliance risks

3.128    Thames Water has highlighted the lack of accurate data as the main reason for its
         failure to identify compliance issues on the scale that it has now done. However, as
         outlined above, there were other indicators and sources of information which could
         have, and should have, alerted the company about the performance of its wastewater
         assets and the extent to which it was operating and maintaining these assets to ensure
         it was able to meet local demand and to minimise adverse effects on the environment,
         and hence to comply with its legal obligations to do so.

3.129    In this section we consider the processes and procedures that Thames Water has told us
         it had/has in place to enable it to identify and address compliance risks.

3.130    Outside of the G2G asset-wide risk assessments that Thames Water undertook in 2017
         and repeated in 2020, it told us that it also had various ad-hoc processes and
         procedures in place to enable it to assess FFT compliance and inform decisions with
         respects to the performance of its WWTW. These processes included site visits combined
         with remote monitoring of key assets, processes, and data. Thames Water claimed that
         these operational processes enabled it to ensure that any anomalies that might arise
         were flagged, investigated and rectified in a timely manner, or, if necessary, escalated
         or used to identify investment needs or additional funding to ensure that such issues did
         not occur in future.

3.131    Thames Water explained, for example, that all WWTW with storm discharge permits
         have had remote monitoring capability which include storm tank levels and key process
         assets. Alarms have been monitored centrally in Thames Water's Waste Operational
         Control Room which has been manned 24/7. Site processes have been audited by
         process scientists with data from larger sites being collated centrally and reviewed to

   170
      See footnote 75. Following a prosecution decision in July 2023, the Environment Agency noted that
   as a result of its prosecutions for pollution incidents, at that point, Thames Water had been fined a
   total of £35.7m since 2017.


                                                     96
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         ensure sites have been operated and maintained at the required efficiency. Site audits
         have also been conducted by process compliance teams at varying frequencies and the
         completion of operation and maintenance activities have been reported weekly and
         reviewed in performance meetings. Regular reviews have also taken place at local team
         level and key performance indicators (KPIs) have been reviewed at departmental level.
         Thames Water also noted that critical asset availability has been tracked through its
         "Waste Cockpit" system.

3.132    The company also told us that any risks and steps to address issues have been recorded
         in local action plans managed by the site performance team and process
         compliance team. Longer-term issues have been referred to the company's asset
         planning team and plans discussed and escalated, if appropriate, to its Environmental
         Governance Board (EGB). The EGB was set up in November 2019 to provide oversight,
         assurance and challenge on operational performance and environmental compliance 171
         and is chaired by the Head of Environmental Regulation and Quality and attended by
         Directors from Operations, Engineering and Asset, and Sustainability.

3.133    Throughout our investigation, and whilst acknowledging that there were areas for
         improvement, Thames Water has maintained that its processes and procedures have
         been robust and capable of identifying and managing compliance risks. Instead, it
         pointed to a lack of accurate data as the key factor in its failure to identity the full extent
         of potential FFT and other non-compliance at its sites.

3.134    As explained earlier, Thames Water told us that it had previously relied on data from its
         FE/TDV monitors to provide an indication of whether its sites were likely to be meeting
         FFT permit requirements. As spills data from its EDM monitors has become available,
         this has enabled it to get a better understanding of its compliance position and, in turn,
         has revealed more sites of concern.

3.135    It also told us, however, that while it began installing EDMs during AMP6 172 issues with
         the installation of these monitors meant that it could not rely on the accuracy of the data

   171
       The original EGB Terms of Reference identified the purpose of the EGB as “oversight of high-level
   performance, compliance with all legislation, strategic decision making to meet future requirements,
   and executive steer for business change activities”. The Terms of Reference were updated in November
   2020, January 2021, January 2022 and April 2022. In January 2022 the purpose was updated to
   “oversight and strategic decision making on compliance performance, environmental legislation,
   business change activities and stakeholder engagement”.
   172
       In AMP6 Thames Water installed 465 EDMs at its WWTW (under EDM1 and EDM2 National
   Environment Programme (NEP) drivers) to monitor the frequency and duration of storm discharges to
   the environment. Although the initial 257 installations had been signed off under the NEP framework,
   Thames Water subsequently discovered issues with the quality of data from these monitors. These
   issues were discovered when Thames Water undertook its first assessment of its EDM data ahead of
   submission to the Environment Agency. (Before Thames Water launched this assessment process it did
   not have routine data quality checks following the installation of its monitors.) The issues identified fell
   into three broad categories;


                                                       97
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

        from a significant number of its sites. These issues were identified in Autumn 2018 and
        were ultimately found to have been caused by a new capital delivery model which
        Thames Water had introduced in AMP6 and which, according to the company, had led to
        a lack of assurance, communication and governance of EDM installation requirements.

3.136   Thames Water has acknowledged that there were issues with regard to the first EDM
        installations within AMP6, but has also informed us 173 that it is now confident that these
        issues have been addressed and it has introduced a range of new processes and
        procedures to avoid problems arising again 174. Nevertheless, these installation issues do
        appear to have had a significant impact on the company's ability to access reliable data
        on spills to the environment. According to information reported to the Environment
        Agency, for example, in 2018 just 35% of all Thames Water's sites with storm overflows
        with EDMs were reporting >90% of data; this increased to 60% in 2019; 89% in 2020 and
        90.3% in 2021. 175

3.137   More recently, the company has also taken steps to accelerate the roll out of its monitors
        to give it greater oversight of what is happening across its WWTW estate and network. In
        an update provided in September 2024, for example, it told us that all U_MON 3 monitors
        had been installed and had been commissioned, were operational and had certificates
        of conformity.




   •    Installation: installations at incorrect locations that did not accurately represent storm spills to the
        environment; issues with physical access to monitors and inability to perform maintenance tasks;
        EDM not capable of collecting accurate data from locations such as wet wells and storm tanks.
   • Data communications: complications involving network comms between the EDM monitors and
        Thames Water's systems as data being sent via a 2G mobile network location was impacted by poor
        network connectivity due to the location of the monitor.
   • Post installation: a failure to consistently add the monitors to the Thames Water Asset Register and
        a lack of communications with Operations at the point of asset handover resulted in maintenance
        not consistently being applied as per the Thames Water Asset Standard. In addition, no data
        quality assurance processes were introduced when the monitors were first installed, meaning that
        Thames Water was not able to validate data on a regular basis which in turn lead to delays in the
        identification of suspect and missing data.
   173Thames Water's response, January 2024.
   174
       Thames Water told us that its operational monitors are subject to a combination of operational
   checks, as defined in its operational standards, which include activities such as cleaning and
   calibration. These monitors are also subject to calendar-based mandatory maintenance to ensure their
   continued effective operation as well as reactive maintenance should a monitor fail or, if through data
   quality checks, it appears to be producing incorrect data. In its December 2021 response, however,
   Thames Water also acknowledged that there have been inconsistencies in the delivery of its FE and
   EDM monitoring maintenance and calibration as set out in its asset standards which it is committed to
   addressing. It also noted that it is ensuring that monitors being installed during AMP7 will be subject to
   the correct maintenance at the point of hand over and will be integrated into its Quality Management
   System.
   175
       The proportion of Thames Water's storm overflows with EDMs in place and reporting >90% of data
   fell again in 2022 and 2023 (to 52.9% and 67.0% respectively, as a result of the discovery of 312
   previously unidentified and unmonitored overflows.

                                                        98
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

3.138    In relation to U_MON 4 monitors, Thames Water told us it had installed 154 monitors to
         September 2024 and that these monitors were operational and had obtained certificates
         of conformity (with 91 monitors having full MCERTS certification). This included monitors
         which the company had planned to install under WINEP for AMP8 but which it had
         accelerated into AMP7.

3.139    According to Thames Water these monitors are subject to rigorous data verification, with
         the U_MON 3 data in particular being checked constantly through the company's new
         Discharge Alert Manager (DAM) tool. In addition, its MCERTS certified U_MON 4
         monitors are managed under the company's MCERTS Quality Management System
         (QMS) which details the maintenance and data handling requirements for these
         monitors. In its September 2024 response to our consultation, Thames Water told us that
         the first external audit of the company's processes to ensure successful and accurate
         calibration of its U_MON monitors had been completed and no major defaults had been
         identified. This audit is scheduled to occur annually.

3.140    In addition to the accelerated roll out of monitors, Thames Water also informed us that it
         has invested in the development of digital tools such as its DAM. This, it claims, will give
         the company near real-time visibility of spills to the environment, spills to storm tanks
         and a view of FFT and environmental compliance more broadly. In its September 2024
         response, Thames Water told us that the DAM tool is now fully operational and is being
         used across the company's operational monitoring base. It also noted that it is gathering
         feedback continually in order to enhance the existing features of the tool and enable its
         continuous development.

3.141    As a result of the implementation of the DAM tool, Thames Water told us that it will be
         able to collate and centralise data received from the company's monitors, harnessing FE,
         EDM and U_MON data to gauge widescale compliance across its wastewater network,
         with any anomalies being flagged to operational teams for investigation. It also noted
         that reports are being built for operational teams to have direct insight into performance
         and to allow Thames Water to generate weekly or monthly summaries of alert volumes,
         by type, region and site. This will also enable teams to investigate the circumstances of a
         reported spill and to escalate within the company if necessary 176.

3.142    The DAM tool is also being enhanced to allow compliance forecasting. According to
         Thames Water, the tool can, for example, integrate data from the company's sewer

   176
      In January 2024, for example, Thames Water told us that the U_MON 3 and U_MON 4 data collated,
   which feeds into the DAM tool, is inputted into a weekly report which is then circulated to operations
   managers to identify opportunities for operational intervention, with “business as usual” low-risk and
   low-cost remediations occurring at an operational level, with escalations to the Environmental
   Governance Board (“EGB”) on a monthly basis for those solutions which require more complex scopes.
   It also told us that it has implemented improved programmes to strengthen the flow of information on
   compliance between operational teams “on the ground”, through the EGB to the Board and Executive
   (such as updated business forums, monthly sponsoring group meetings through the WAAP, changes to
   performance reporting within the EGB, and quarterly WAAP reports to the Board).

                                                     99
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        depth monitors to give the company the ability to proactively identify a potential
        forthcoming blockage on the network. This will make the tool more proactive in
        understanding where sites may be at risk of spilling to the environment as well as
        enabling links directly to its Pollution Tracker tool, the company's single source of
        information on all pollutions to the environment.

3.143   In a further update provided as part of its September 2024 response to our consultation,
        Thames Water noted that its Waste Control Team have created guidelines for the
        business on how to action alerts within the DAM (for example, in instances where the
        DAM indicates a potential non-compliance event) and have mapped out these processes
        for all asset types. These processes are regularly updated in line with updates to
        business practices and procedures. In addition, process maps have been created for
        data outages across the monitors and work is underway to build out processes on how
        maintenance should be handled for each monitor type used within the DAM.

3.144   In relation to compliance beyond FFT permit conditions, Thames Water told us that it has
        also implemented a Compliance Assessment System (CAS) with the objective of
        providing enhanced transparency on its compliance position against all permit
        conditions, to escalate potential non-compliance, and to provide oversight of related
        improvement programmes. According to Thames Water 177 the CAS:

          •   is an interactive tool to allow “self-serve” reports on compliance position;
          •   identifies areas of greatest permit compliance risk;
          •   improves oversight of improvement schemes to address risk;
          •   implements a process to provide regular re-assessments of compliance position;
              and
          •   helps deliver the objectives of the Turnaround Plan.

3.145   In an update provided in September 2024, Thames Water told us that the CAS tool had
        completed its assessment across all WWTW for key permit conditions, and all sewage
        pumping stations for all permit conditions and that an assessment of storm overflows
        was also due to commence that month. It also noted that, as with the DAM, the CAS is
        intended to be a programme subject to continual development, with the business
        currently assessing the implementation of a digital tool to accelerate assessments at a
        higher frequency across all permit requirements and asset types.

3.146   In addition to the development of these new tools and processes to enable it to monitor
        and manage the performance of its sites more effectively, Thames Water told us it has
        taken steps to enhance the knowledge, skills and capabilities of its front-line teams
        (areas, which as explained below, its own internal reviews had highlighted as risks). This
        is to ensure that teams understand the importance of maintaining Thames Water's
        monitors, operational responses to potential FFT non-compliance and the regulatory


   177 Thames Water January 2024 response to Ofwat's provisional findings.


                                                    100
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         framework surrounding FFT and storm spills 178. It told us that it will drive this
         enhancement through its Environmental Management System (EMS) via training, new
         and updated environmental standards, and improved communication channels.

3.147    Thames Water has also told us that it has substantially upgraded training programmes
         throughout the business as a key output of the company's Turnaround Plan. This
         includes, for example, rolling out additional mandatory training for pollution awareness
         at WWTW, including mandatory training for front-line managers in relation to the
         management of WWTW (including incidents at WWTW); mandatory training on pollution
         and permits for new starters; and mandatory pollution awareness training across the
         company's waste treatment site teams. In addition, it has also consolidated its internal
         programmes relating to employee culture, such as the company's “Speak Up”
         whistleblowing programme and has taken steps to improve its processes and the
         channels available to staff members for raising concerns. This includes a bespoke
         “Business Integrity & Investigations” team that manages its whistleblowing programme.
         It also operates a “Speak Up” hotline, run by an external charity which allows employees
         to anonymously make reports regarding unethical behaviour within the company. In
         addition, a mandatory training module on honest and ethical behaviour has been
         introduced to encourage the reporting of any environmental compliance concerns.

3.148    Based on the evidence that Thames Water has provided during the course of our
         investigation, it is clear that it is now taking steps to improve its processes and controls
         and has enhanced significantly its use of, and access to, data to allow its to monitor
         trends and to have better oversight over compliance at its WWTW. However, the
         evidence we have seen also points to significant deficiencies in its previous processes
         and controls 179. Indeed, a number of documents provided by the company in response to
         our information requests suggest that the company was aware of, at least some of, the
         deficiencies and shortcomings in its systems and controls that it is now seeking to
         address.

3.149    In September 2019, for example, a paper presented to Thames Water's Audit and Risk
         Committee (ARRC) 180 set out the findings of an internal review into the potential risks


   178
      In recent years, Thames Water has also issued a range of new guidance and briefing material for its
   Operational Teams, Performance Managers and Process Compliance Teams to explain the company's
   key permit obligations and responsibilities in respect of storm discharges at its WWTW, when Thames
   Water is permitted to make a storm discharge into the environment as well as guidance and
   instructions around the appropriate use of storm tanks. EMS Briefing Pack Compliance with storm
   discharge permit conditions at sewage treatment works: September 2021 and Environmental Essential
   Standard 004 Compliance with storm discharge permit conditions at sewage treatment works:
   September 2021. In addition, in 2019, the company issued a Waste Control Technical Briefing on Storm
   Tanks Status Alarms.
   179
       In its January 2024 response, Thames Water acknowledged that historically its processes and
   systems could have been better.
   180
       Report to Thames Water's ARRC Committee entitled 'Lines of Defence for Regulatory Wastewater
   Compliance', 11 September 2019.

                                                    101
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         faced by the company as a result of Ofwat's enforcement action against Southern
         Water 181 for a breach of its duties under section 94 WIA91 and Condition P.

3.150    As part of its review, the company examined a range of different risk categories to reflect
         the range of its operational and management activities and rated each category as red,
         amber or green. This included Operations, Asset Management, Reporting, Culture and
         Governance amongst others. Under Operations, for example, which covered operational
         staff as well as management and technical support (both of which were amber rated),
         the review noted the competence and skills of staff and the strong staff ethos to protect
         the environment, but also found that operating awareness of legal requirements and
         permit compliance obligations was immature, with a focus on numeric effluent
         parameters (that is, "end of pipe" metrics), and that, in many areas, delivery of
         compliant activities was reliant on operator instinct.

3.151    In terms of asset management too (which included on-site alarms and documentation
         and which the review rated as red), the review noted that site operating manuals were
         on a programme of renewal for sites with a new EPR discharge permit only and that
         some manuals and diagrams were out of data and not reflective of the site log books;
         that alarms were not responded to (so increasing the risk of prolonged pollution); and
         site documentation could not be used in operation or in mitigation if required. The
         report recommended a review of the alarm strategy and the promotion of digital
         opportunities to prevent pollutions, building it into site documentation, maintenance
         and training regimes.

3.152    A further Internal Audit Report on Pollutions Reduction and Prevention Risk, Audit &
         Assurance from 17 May 2021 182 also highlighted the risk that a lack of defined
         competencies for both internal employees and external contractors could lead to an
         inability to ensure that wastewater teams had the skills and knowledge to perform
         operations that meet the company's legal obligations and priorities on pollutions. The
         report found that beyond locating the site’s EPR permit, site operators were not
         expected to know permit parameters; that outside of the inspection process there was
         no formal training programme and/or onboarding of employees into specific roles to
         address this gap 183. It concluded that the absence of a formal training programme, built


   181
       Investigation into Southern Water’s wastewater treatment sites and the company’s reporting of
   relevant compliance information to Ofwat.
   182
        Pollutions Reduction and Prevention Risk, Audit & Assurance - Internal Audit Final Internal Audit
   Report 17 May 2021.
   183
       In its January 2024 response, Thames Water told us that it recognised Ofwat’s concerns regarding
   the adequacy of training across its network and WWTW estate. However, it also pointed to the upgrades
   and improvements it has made as part of its Turnaround Plan. This includes (i) updates within the PIRP
   to address mandatory training for front-line managers in relation to the management of WWTW
   (including incidents at WWTW); (ii) mandatory training on pollution and permits for new starters; and
   (iii) mandatory pollution awareness training across its waste treatment site teams. It also noted that a
   review of its Storm Compliance Standard was underway (this is a document which sets out the


                                                     102
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        on key technical competencies to enable employees to reduce and prevent pollutions,
        could result in ineffective decisions making impacting on the environment and increase
        the risk of Thames Water being in breach of legal and regulatory obligations.

3.153   The audit also considered Thames Water's environmental inspection regime, noting that
        this was performed by the EMS Team and assessed operational sites for compliance to
        the EMS standard, which in turn addressed compliance to the EPR permits. The report
        pointed out that this regime could be considered as a preventative control activity which
        could potentially drive a reduction in pollution. Having reviewed the process at a number
        of Thames Water's sites, however, the audit team noted that they were unable to verify
        that the inspection regime was sufficient to monitor the entire estate and highlighted
        that higher risk sites might not be reviewed at the frequency that they needed to be.
        The audit team also highlighted an absence of Senior Leadership Team oversight on
        environmental inspection performance that would enable informed decision making on
        mitigating or reducing pollution. As a result, they pointed to the risk that the company's
        processes might fail or might not effectively keep pace with changes in the legislative
        and/or complex regulatory landscape and thereby lead to instances of non-compliance
        with the company's obligations.

3.154   As a result of the 2021 review by Thames Water's Internal Audit team, a number of
        actions were agreed to strengthen its environmental inspection regime. These included
        checks to verify that site operators had received the necessary awareness training of
        EPR permits and where to access information for the site (including in relation to storm
        tanks); checks that site operators were aware of the Operations Plan schedules for their
        site (which contain key elements to maintain compliance on a daily basis); that process
        documents were updated. The review also recommended the implementation of a
        performance monitoring and reporting process of environmental inspections to be
        presented to the EGB on a monthly basis.

3.155   The audit also pointed to the need for a refresh of the company's EMS house-keeping
        checklist intended to encourage site operators to monitor the assets on their site with
        the aim of driving compliance to EPR permits. In reviewing the existing process, the
        audit noted that the EMS house-keeping exercise was intended to be performed once a
        month on a large site and every quarter on a smaller site with the site operators self-
        declaring that their sites were compliant to the EMS standards which in turn address
        the EPR permits. The output from this exercise was then used to report internally on


   relevant training for compliance with storm discharge permit conditions at its WWTW). It also pointed
   out that training on environmental permit requirements (including training on the UWWTR and the
   requirements for effluent compliance) is mandatory for all new technician starters, with a mandatory
   refresher programme for technicians commencing which will run every three years. In addition, it
   noted that there are multiple training programmes for the operational team and for technicians at
   WWTW, including, for example, sessions for Thames Water's management on the “Use of Storm Tank”.
   This session was part of the EMS briefings held when regulations change, or business processes are
   updated.


                                                    103
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        performance and drive improvements in operational compliance. The audit report found,
        however, that the EMS reports from the completed house-keeping exercises were not
        kept up to date on the EMS system. This meant that it was not possible to evidence that
        housekeeping activities were being completed and therefore, opportunities were being
        missed to drive positive behaviour towards the up-keep of sites with the aim of reducing
        pollutions.

3.156   The reports cited above date from 2019 and 2021 respectively, and clearly indicate that,
        contrary to Thames Water's claims about the robustness of its processes and
        procedures, significant weaknesses existed. It would also appear that many of the issues
        and risks identified in the 2019 reports were still being highlighted in the 2021 report,
        suggesting that the company had failed to address them in a timely manner or with
        sufficient urgency.

3.157   While recognising the steps that Thames Water has taken, and is taking, to improve its
        access to, and use of, data on spills from storm overflows across its WWTW estate and to
        ensure that the issues encountered with the installation of EDMs during AMP6 are not
        repeated, it is clear that further work is needed. The fact that in its 2022 annual return
        to the Environment Agency the company identified 312 storm overflows which had not
        previously been listed, and which did not have monitors in place, and many of which
        were also unpermitted 184, points to ongoing problems with its management and
        oversight of its wastewater assets.



   Thames Water's governance arrangements and the role of the
   Board in ensuring the company is meetings its environmental
   obligations
3.158   During the course of our investigation, Thames Water stressed that its Board and
        Executive Team are fully committed to addressing any potential non-compliance with all
        aspects of its environmental obligations. While acknowledging that legal compliance
        must be the baseline for any organisation, it also told us that it is aware that its
        customers and communities expect Thames Water to go beyond this, to protect and
        improve environmental quality and take account of the value that its communities place
        on its watercourses.

3.159   It explained that organisationally, governance and oversight of its environmental
        permitting requirements had been separated within the business from its Operations
        directorate, with its Engineering and Asset directorate assurance function providing
        independent assessment of its performance and compliance. This function oversaw the
        annual quality monitoring programme for wastewater discharges (operator self-


   184 As highlighted previously, Thames Water told us that, following the introduction on its unpermitted

   CSO programme, this number had now been reduced.

                                                     104
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

        monitoring) as well as the self-monitoring of final effluent flow, both of which are
        audited annually by the Environment Agency.

3.160   In order to keep the Executive team and Board informed regarding Thames Water's
        performance with respect to its price review Performance Commitments (PCs) and the
        Environment Agency's EPA rating, its Engineering and Asset team reported to it on the
        company's numeric discharge performance (that is, its "end of pipe" compliance), as
        well as compliance with its FE permitted flow conditions, including DWF and Missing
        Data performance. The FE total daily flows were reviewed on a monthly basis at an
        operational team level and non-compliances investigated, initially at a local level but
        also with subsequent escalation via the assurance function, and reports made to the
        Environment Agency at year-end in line with permitted requirements.

3.161   As outlined previously, Thames Water told us that as an escalation point, its monthly
        senior management level EGB has, since November 2019, provided oversight, assurance
        and challenge on operational performance and environmental compliance. These EGB
        meetings are chaired by the Head of Environmental Regulation and Quality. Members of
        the Executive receive details of the agreed actions from this meeting to provide
        oversight and attend on a quarterly basis. Insights into the company's environmental
        performance and compliance, including in relation to flow matters, have also been
        reported via the Operations Director at Board level via the quarterly Health, Safety and
        Environment (HSEC) committee meetings, which are chaired by an independent non-
        Executive Director. The Chair reports back to the Board with an update from the HSEC.

3.162   In its September 2024 response to our consultation Thames Water also told us that it had
        created a new “Environmental Matters” Steering Group which had its first meeting at the
        beginning of 2024. Whilst initially informal, the Group now has formal terms of reference
        which is to provide an overview of existing and future environmental compliance
        performance and risk, ensure upcoming legislation or changes are identified across the
        business with key risks escalated, and with risk owners assigned as required. The Group
        reports into, and escalates matters upwards to, the EGB. In addition, Thames Water has
        also appointed a senior lawyer, who has been in post since July 2024, to support in
        providing oversight and assurance of environmental compliance.

3.163   In its responses to our section 203 notices Thames Water has acknowledged that,
        historically, its oversight and management could have been better 185. However, it has
        also claimed that, overall, its systems of planning, risk management, internal control,
        and performance management, coupled with its information systems and improvement
        actions, have enabled the Executive and Board to broadly assess the company’s overall
        compliance with its licence and regulatory obligations - including its obligations under
        section 94 WIA91. It outlined the following list of fora and activities which, it claims,



   185 Including in its January 2024 response.


                                                    105
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         demonstrates the range and depth of information that the Executive and Board has been
         considering, including:

           •   Monthly Executive and Board business performance reporting, containing a range
               of routine information and exceptional items, included performance reporting on a
               variety of wastewater measures;

           •   Quarterly Executive Risk Committee which reviews the top current risks from
               across the company, material improvement or deterioration in existing risks and
               new risks, as well as changes in the internal and external risk climate;

           •   Quarterly Audit, Risk and Reporting Committee (ARRC) which monitors Thames
               Water's risk management system and reviews the principal risks facing the
               business. ARRC typically meets a few days prior to the Board and reports as a
               standing agenda item throughout the year;

           •   Quarterly Health, Safety and Environment Committee (HSEC) which has a general
               objective to provide oversight and governance of environmental performance,
               including pollution incidents. The HSEC reports throughout the year to the Board;

           •   Annual controls self-assessment (CSA), where Thames Water's leadership self-
               assesses the maturity of the company's control environment, including ensuring
               the company’s compliance with all relevant legislation and regulation, the
               accuracy and reliability of its non-financial reporting and delivery against its
               environmental protection and climate change activities. The results of the CSA are
               reported to the Executive and Board.


3.164    In addition, as part of its Licence Condition P requirements, Thames Water's Board must
         provide assurance to Ofwat annually that the company has adequate systems of
         planning and internal control and resources to enable it carry out its regulated activities,
         including its duties under UWWTR and section 94 WIA91. This assurance is provided via
         the Ring-fencing Certificate (RFC). To enable the Board to sign the RFC, and as outlined
         above, Thames Water also prepares a Risk and Compliance Statement (RCS). This is
         designed to identify risks across the organisation and assess the extent to which any
         risks identified might impact on the ability of the company to carry out its regulated
         activities.

3.165    In Thames Water's case, the company already has formal undertakings in place (under
         section 19 WIA91) as a result of previous enforcement action by Ofwat in 2018 for
         breaches of its duties under section 37 WIA91186 and Condition F (now Condition P) of its

   186
      Section 37 of the Water Industry Act 1991 is a water company’s general duty to develop and maintain
   an efficient and economical system of water supply within its area and to ensure that all such
   arrangements have been made, a) for providing supplies of water to premises in its area of


                                                    106
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        licence. The company's general duty under section 37 WIA91 is the equivalent of its duty
        under section 94 WIA91 but relates to the provision of water services rather than
        wastewater.

3.166   As part of these undertakings, Thames Water committed to providing detailed, and
        externally audited, evidence to support its certification that it has adequate resources,
        systems and controls in place to carry out its regulated activities. As a result, a 'Review
        and Recommend' report has been additionally prepared by the company's external
        auditors and includes a review of the processes, procedures and controls that the
        company has in place to support the RFC.

3.167   In response to our information requests, Thames Water provided copies of these
        documents, as well as copies of agenda papers and minutes of the various committee
        and Board meetings at which these documents were discussed. These documents relate
        mainly to the period from 2019 to early 2022. The Risk and Compliance Statements for
        this period do highlight risks due to material instances of non-compliance and missed
        targets relating to its commitments in respect of WWTW compliance (that is, "end of
        pipe" compliance), Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPR) compliance and
        pollution incidents (which in turn are metrics which are relevant to the company's EPA
        rating or PCs). They do not, however, contain any reference to any risks arising from
        potential non-compliance with FFT permit conditions or any ongoing risk arising from
        the company's failure to deal with sites with known compliance risks under its G2G
        programme or any consideration for what this meant for the company's wider duties
        under UWWTR and section 94 WIA91 187.

3.168   Thames Water told us that the range of information provided to the Executive and Board
        on evidence of the company's performance against known metrics enabled them to
        broadly assess overall compliance with the company's legal obligations, including its
        obligations under section 94 and its licence conditions. However, from the documents
        provided to us by Thames Water 188, it would appear that, in the past, the primary focus of
        this information related to the company's performance against metrics such as number
        of sewer flooding incidents, compliance with limited aspects of the Environment
        Agency's WWTW discharge permit conditions (which focus on FE or "end-of-pipe" permit

   appointment and making them available on demand, and b) for maintaining, improving and extending
   its water mains and other pipes as are necessary to meet its obligations under Part III of the Water
   Industry Act 1991. In 2017, Ofwat opened an investigation into Thames Water for a failure to meet its
   performance commitments in relation to leakage and its security of supply index.
   187
       We understand that these are now being included as part of the regular updates to Board and
   captured as part of the company's processes to enable the Board to sign the RFC. In its 2022/23 Annual
   Performance Report too, the company also highlighted the potential exception to its compliance with
   its obligations in relation to environmental permitting regulations and section 94 WIA91. Thames
   Water's Annual Performance Report, 2022-23, page 92. Documents provided by Thames Water also
   notes that Compliance with Environmental Permits was "New for 2022 RFC" (for example, Executive
   Strategic Decisions Committee 7 March 2022 – Report on Quarterly Condition P 07/03/22 RFC).
   188 These include Executive, ARRC and Board documents provided by Thames Water in response to

   questions B1 and B2 of its April 2022 response to our section 203 notice.

                                                    107
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         conditions) as well as the number and category of pollution incidents 189. These metrics,
         in turn, affect the company's overall EPA rating or are linked to its PCs and Outcome
         Delivery Incentives (ODIs) under Ofwat's price review regime, rather than the company's
         underlying legal obligations. 190

3.169    Thames Water noted that these metrics have typically been tracked by management and
         reported monthly to Board. It acknowledged, however, that there are several EPR permit
         obligations that do not have external reporting requirements (including, for example,
         storm tank operation and FFT compliance) and which have not been routinely reported
         internally at Executive and Board level.

3.170    In addition to the regular updates and activities outlined above, Thames Water also
         highlighted a number of other ways in which the Executive and Board (or committees
         that report to Board) have been involved in understanding compliance and
         environmental permits. This included:

           •   A risk 'deep-dive' meeting in March 2020 at which the Operations Director
               presented the Board with information on the company's performance, details
               about the root causes of spills and pollution incidents and reported on compliance
               with permits;

           •   A follow-up update to the ARRC in June 2020 which addressed some of the
               questions raised at the Board meeting above;

           •   A review of the ‘Operational asset failure’ risk by the Executive Risk Committee in
               October 2020, which covered the causes and environmental impacts caused by

   189
       More recently too, it has included data on spills to the environment in its Board reporting with the
   intention of using this to track its progress on spills reduction.
   190
       As part of the price review process Ofwat sets performance commitments to incentivise companies
   to deliver on the outcomes that matter to their customers and the environment. Performance
   commitments have either financial or reputational incentives (‘Outcome Delivery Incentives (ODIs)’)
   associated with them. The majority of these incentives are financial which means that if a company
   performs better than the performance commitment level, it may get an outperformance payment
   (which means that it recovers more revenue from customers) and if it performs below the commitment
   level it may have to make an underperformance payment (which means that customers pay less). In
   this way, each company’s management and its investors are encouraged to deliver what customers
   want. They incur outperformance payments for doing better than their performance commitment
   target; and underperformance payments if fail to meet those targets. The underperformance payments
   incurred by companies for not meeting performance levels set at a price review are distinct from
   enforcement penalties that Ofwat may impose under section 22A of the WIA91. The former is part of
   mechanisms used at price reviews to incentivise good performance and the achievement of agreed
   performance standards; the latter are penalties for breaching enforceable statutory or licence
   requirements.
   All water companies in England and Wales are also required to publish information about their
   performance in an Annual Performance Report. This includes information about how they have done in
   meeting their performance commitments; whether they have earned any out or underperformance
   payments for their delivery against these commitments; and if companies are failing to deliver, how
   they will put things right.

                                                     108
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

              operational asset failure, and the controls established to prevent (or mitigate the
              impact of) asset failure, including current risk exposures;

          •   A report from the Internal Audit team covering ‘Pollutions prevention and controls’
              which was circulated to the Executive team and ARRC members in May 2021 which
              identified improvements required to reduce the risk of non-compliance;

          •   A report to the Board in September 2021 on the approach to address storm
              discharges and ensure compliance with the company's legal obligation to treat
              enough flow at its sites before discharging to the environment (flow non-
              compliance).

3.171   The information provided to us by Thames Water does appear to show that since 2020,
        the Executive and the Board have begun to focus more on the company's performance in
        terms of spills and pollution incidents and, more recently (since the launch of the
        Environment Agency and Ofwat investigations), on other aspects of environmental
        permit compliance, including flow compliance. However, prior to this, and based on the
        evidence provided to us, Executive and Board engagement on these issues appears to
        have been very limited.

3.172   This appears to have been the case in relation to the G2G programme and the decisions
        about the prioritisation and speed with which compliance risks would be addressed. In
        its response, Thames Water told us that its work on identifying and resolving FFT issues
        through its G2G programme had been conducted "with the awareness of the Board". The
        documents we have seen confirm that the Executive and Board were made aware of the
        findings of the G2G risk assessment and so were aware of the potential scale of non-
        compliance risk across the WWTW estate (mainly via heatmaps, showing the number of
        sites rated red, amber, green). However, those documents also seem to indicate that the
        main focus of the discussions with Board about the G2G programme related to the level
        of funding included in the company's business plans, rather than any real consideration
        of what the true scale of compliance risk, identified by the G2G assessment, might mean
        in terms of the company's compliance with its environmental permits more generally,
        and ultimately, its compliance with its duties under the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91.

3.173   Thames Water also acknowledged that, in the past, there had been no specific line item
        in its regular reports to Board addressing compliance with the company's duties under
        section 94 WIA91 / UWWTR and it appears to have failed to make the connection between
        complying with its environmental permits, including its FFT permit conditions, and its
        wider regulatory obligations.

3.174   This is surprising as Thames Water should have been aware of, and should have been
        alert to, the risk that a failure to meet FFT permit conditions might mean in terms of the
        company's wider compliance position. Not only had the company been the subject of
        previous Environment Agency prosecutions due to the environmental impact of the


                                                   109
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         failure of a number of its sites to treat sufficient FFT, but in June 2019 Ofwat had issued
         our decision 191 in our Southern Water enforcement case for breaches of its licence
         conditions and its statutory duties. The Southern Water case clearly set out the
         importance of companies meeting FFT permit conditions and explained the link between
         failures to meet FFT permit conditions and a company's wider duties.

3.175    Moreover, when issuing our decision for the Southern Water case, we also wrote to the
         CEOs of all water companies 192 to ensure that they were aware of our findings against
         Southern Water and that these findings were widely understood across their
         organisations. In that letter we asked them to consider whether they were confident
         that the events which occurred at Southern Water could not happen in their own
         organisations. In addition, we used these letters as an opportunity to reinforce our
         message to the sector that we will not tolerate companies that "show scant regards to
         their responsibilities to customers and the environment" and noted that "[c]ompanies
         should expect us to step up the sanctions we impose for breaches of this nature". 193

3.176    It is clear from information provided to us by Thames Water, that the implications of the
         Southern Water case had been considered by the company. Indeed, it would appear that
         it was described, by the company, as an opportunity to learn about Ofwat’s expectations
         in terms of demonstrating compliance with Section 94, Licence Condition P and its
         Environment Agency permit requirements.

3.177    In a paper discussed by its ARRC 194 in September 2019, referred to above, Ofwat’s
         approach to section 94 was highlighted as was the central duty of companies to ensure
         full permit compliance at WWTW and to ensure that discharges of untreated wastewater
         only occur in accordance with permit conditions. The paper also noted the fact that in
         the Southern Water case Ofwat had taken into account levels of timely investment and
         expectations of a proactive approach to maintenance.

3.178    This paper also considered what the Southern Water case might mean for Thames Water
         in terms of its own compliance regime; highlighted risks with its current position; and
         recommended ways of mitigating those risks. This included a review of its compliance
         commitments and performance; its site-based systems and processes to ensure that
         WWTW and network assets were operated in a compliant manner; the independence of
         its sampling programme (for final effluent quality or 'end-of-pipe' compliance); its

   191
       Investigation into Southern Water’s wastewater treatment sites and the company’s reporting of
   relevant compliance information to Ofwat.
   192
       Letter from Rachel Fletcher to all CEOs regarding Southern Water, 28 June 2019.
   193
       In its response to the consultation on our draft decision, Thames Water told us that it understood
   this to refer to the mis-reporting aspects of the Southern Water investigation, not to the failings in
   relation to the management of wastewater treatment assets. In our view, it is clear that the letter
   relates not just to mis-reporting but was intended to send a strong message about the need for
   companies to take their responsibilities to the environment seriously.
   194
       Report to Thames Water's ARRC Committee entitled 'Lines of Defence for Regulatory Wastewater
   Compliance', 11 September 2019.

                                                      110
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         monitoring, reporting and intervention approach; its asset maintenance investment
         approach in terms of providing resilience to compliance; and its compliance culture, at
         all levels of the organisation.

3.179    Previously, we set out the review's 195 findings in terms of the company's operation of its
         WWTW; its asset management and staff training. In addition, the review also highlighted
         a number of other risks. On reporting, for example, it noted that the process in relation
         to 'end-of-pipe' effluent compliance was mature, but it rated reporting on all other EPR
         and legislation requirements as red. This reflected the fact that while information on
         "end of pipe" compliance, pollutions and any ongoing enforcement action by the
         Environment Agency was reported monthly to the Board (with tracked pollution updates
         provided to senior management and daily updates provided from operational control),
         parameters other than ‘end-of-pipe' (such as flow compliance and descriptive permit
         breaches) were not reported. This, according to the review findings, raised the risk that
         these compliance failures were potentially unknown. It recommended, therefore, the
         establishment of a full legal requirements tracker with performance reported monthly
         and prioritised on the basis of environmental harm.

3.180    In relation to corporate culture and governance too, the review concluded that
         culturally, there was some evidence that a small but significant proportion of staff (14%)
         were not comfortable in raising environmental compliance concerns with management.
         It noted that, in the past, this had meant that these risks had not reached senior
         management attention and pointed to the need for better oversight to enable the
         company to satisfy itself that behaviours throughout the business were aligned with its
         environmental policy and corporate commitments 196.

3.181    Having assessed the different aspects of the company's compliance regime, the review
         also considered the extent to which "[t]he actions of the company were the actions to be
         expected of a reasonable company". 197 It concluded that historic prioritisation of capital
         maintenance had not put robust and resilient environmental compliance of all
         permit/consent conditions as a high priority, rather concentrating on 'end-of-pipe'
         compliance. It also noted that current asset condition had historically not been
         considered in the context of the development of future legislative requirements, even
         with issues being highlighted through the company's formal systems. It recommended,
         therefore, that the governance behind capital spend and investment should formally

   195
       Ibid.
   196
       As noted earlier, in its January 2024 response, Thames Water told us that it has since taken steps to
   improve its processes and the channels available to staff members for raising concerns. This includes
   a bespoke “Business Integrity & Investigations” team that manages the company’s whistleblowing
   programme. It also operates a “Speak Up” hotline, run by an external charity to allow employees to
   anonymously make reports regarding unethical behaviour within the company. In addition, a
   mandatory training module on honest and ethical behaviour has been instated within the company to
   encourage the reporting of any environmental compliance concerns.
   197
       Report to Thames Water's ARRC Committee entitled 'Lines of Defence for Regulatory Wastewater
   Compliance', 11 September 2019.

                                                      111
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         consider and prioritise compliance requirements moving forward. The review also
         concluded that compliance risks and resilience for all aspects of permits were not
         considered as a high priority in decisions on capital investment spend and suggested
         that, in order to mitigate these risks, the company's approach to risk prioritisation
         should be considered; that compliance issues should be ranked higher; and that
         awareness of all compliance obligations should be increased.

3.182    In summarising the potential legal and regulatory implications arising from its review of
         issues and risks in the wake of the Southern Water enforcement case, the report to ARRC
         concluded that "[t]he legal implications sit with the EA and Ofwat. With respect to the
         EA, there are areas of risk that the EA are aware of. If we do not deliver on our
         commitment to improve, such as through ‘Go to Green’, we will be at risk of prosecution.
         For Ofwat, whilst there are some areas where it is not known whether we are fully
         compliant with our Section 94 obligations, we do believe that our actions are those of a
         reasonable company within the prioritisation of limited investment funds. This opinion
         may need to be legally reviewed. For Ofwat’s Condition P, we believe there are strong
         controls for end-of-pipe parameters, but there is more we can do to improve our control
         of processes and culture to be compliant with the full remit of environmental permits
         and other environmental legislation". 198

3.183    The shortcomings in its systems and processes identified in the 2019 report to ARRC
         were also reflected in other documents provided by Thames Water in response to our
         information requests. An Internal Audit Report on Compliance with Environmental
         Permitting Regulations (EPRs) Risk, Audit & Assurance from January 2019 199, had also
         noted, for example, that "The control environment is unsatisfactory and needs major
         improvements to reduce the organisation's exposure to risk to an acceptable level for
         ensuring compliance with Environmental Permit Regulations. We have found that
         governance and ownership is unclear and incomplete, performance reporting has a bias
         towards pollutions and is not designed to pick up other compliance areas".

3.184    That 2019 audit report also noted that governance arrangements for environmental
         permitting were unevenly spread across the various permitting requirements and that
         the company's existing policy was not effective in setting direction or monitoring
         performance. In relation to performance reporting, the report found that performance of
         permitting was monitored via a number of processes including alarms, monitors and
         sampling regimes with the results being reported both internally to business unit
         performance meetings and externally to the Environment Agency. However, it also found
         that, as with governance and oversight, monitoring of performance was mainly aligned
         to EPA requirements and processes that existed under the previous consent regime that
         focus on the quality of wastewater treatment rather than flow management.



     Ibid.
   198

   199
      Compliance with Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPRs) Risk, Audit & Assurance - Internal
   Audit Final Internal Audit Report, 2 January 2019.

                                                    112
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

3.185    Similar concerns about reporting, oversight and governance were still being raised
         within Thames Water in 2021. The Internal Audit Report on Pollutions Reduction and
         Prevention Risk, Audit & Assurance - from 17 May 2021 200 (referred to previously) again
         highlighted an absence of Senior Leadership Team oversight on environmental
         inspection performance that would enable informed decision making on mitigating or
         reducing pollution. According to the report, this increased the risk that the company's
         processes might fail or might not effectively keep pace with changes in legislative
         and/or complex regulatory landscape leading to instances of non-compliance with the
         company's obligations.

3.186    Despite these findings, the documents we have seen from 2019 onwards indicate that,
         until recently, the information being reported to Thames Water's Board continued to be
         heavily focused on metrics which impacted on the company's EPA rating, or which were
         linked to its price review PCs, rather than on the full range of environmental legal
         obligations. Nevertheless, throughout this period, and despite the shortcomings
         identified by the company's own internal reviews, the Board continued to provide annual
         certificates to assures us that the company had adequate resources and systems of
         planning and internal control to enable it to secure the carrying out of its regulated
         activities 201.


   Thames Water's plan to address potential non-compliance at
   its WWTW

   Addressing compliance issues at sites of concern

3.187    In its responses to our section 203 notices, Thames Water acknowledged the scale of
         potential FFT non-compliance at its sites (albeit stressing the cautious approach it had
         adopted to identify sites of concern and the uncertainty around the true scale of
         compliance due to a lack of accurate data).

3.188    In its December 2021 response, Thames Water told us that it had developed a
         “Compliance First” plan to accelerate steps to bring the majority of its sites of concern
         back into compliance by the end of AMP7 and the remainder by end of AMP8. To deliver
         this, it told us it had estimated that it needed to invest a further [CONFIDENTIAL –
         REDACTED] to bring an additional 41 sites back into compliance by the end of AMP7.




   200
       Pollutions Reduction and Prevention Risk, Audit & Assurance - Internal Audit Final Internal Audit
   Report 17 May 2021.
   201 As noted previously in a number of documents provided by Thames Water, including for example, a

   document entitled Executive Strategic Decisions Committee 7 March 2022 – Report on Quarterly
   Condition P 07/03/22 RFC Documents, Compliance with Environmental Permits is identified as being
   "New for 2022 RFC".

                                                    113
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        (This was in addition to the £170 million of investment already allocated for the G2G
        programme for AMP7). [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] 202.

3.189   The Compliance First plan outlined above, and the [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] of
        additional investment that Thames Water estimated would be needed, was, however,
        developed to address compliance issues at the 104 sites of concern the company had
        identified at the time of its December 2021 response. It was also based on its initial
        assessment of the root causes of potential non-compliance at a number of these sites
        and the steps that would need to be taken to bring them back into compliance.

3.190   Thames Water also explained that of the 104 sites of concern it had identified, it had
        already resolved compliance issues at 15 sites during 2021, and others were being
        addressed under the G2G programme or as a result of site upgrades as part of WINEP,
        which were programmed throughout AMP7. This meant that there were 51 sites (almost
        half of the sites then identified as sites of concern) where further investigation was
        required, and where it did not, at that stage, have improvement plans in place. The
        breakdown is shown in Table 3.12 below and a list of the sites covered by Thames Water's
        Compliance First plan is provided in Appendix A3.

        Table 3.12: Compliance First Plan (104 sites of concern)

                                                                     Number of WWTW
          Sites already resolved                                                      15
          Sites included in G2G                                                       25
          Sites with other fixes                                                       2
          WINEP                                                                       11
          Sites – non-treatment/operational issues – AMP7                             31
          Sites – treatment resilience – AMP7                                         10
          Sites – AMP8                                                                10
          Total                                                                      104
        Source: Thames Water


3.191   In setting out its Compliance First plan, Thames Water had acknowledged that the
        additional funding of [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] allocated over AMP7 and AMP8 was
        likely to change as its understanding of its compliance position and its analysis of root
        causes improved, and the development of solutions evolved. It also acknowledged that
        improvements in data quality could reveal further sites requiring investigation, meaning
        that Thames Water would need to revisit the [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] allocation to
        ensure sufficient funding was in place to ensure compliance. This, it explained, would be



   202 See also document entitled "Ofwat Coppermills Site Visit 31 January 2022" which also sets out

   Thames Water's plans under its Compliance First plan and its estimates of the investment needed to
   restore compliance at the sites it had then identified as failing to meet FFT permit conditions and the
   timeframe over which it was expecting to deliver solutions.

                                                      114
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        closely monitored, and the latest position regularly reported to the Executive and the
        Board.

3.192   Since its December 2021 response, Thames Water has found more sites of concern. As a
        result (and having completed its root cause analysis for all 157 of these sites), in January
        2023 Thames Water informed us that it estimated that a further [CONFIDENTIAL –
        REDACTED] would be needed in AMP8 to address compliance issues at all sites 203. This
        was in addition to the [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] that the company had committed to
        for AMP7 and AMP8 under its Compliance First plan.

3.193   Thames Water also informed us that the total proposed new investment of
        [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] (that is, [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] under Compliance
        First plus the additional [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED]) would be used to address
        potential compliance issues across four criteria 204 namely:

          •   FFT – treating the permitted flow to treatment before spilling to storm storage or the
              environment;
          •   Effluent quality – meeting the effluent parameters stated in the permit;
          •   Screens and macerators – passing solids of no greater size than 6mm in two
              directions; and
          •   Storm tanks – having the stipulated storm storage and overflow requirements.

3.194   Thames Water also explained that the revised figure of [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] was
        based on a joint engineering and delivery review of the scope of likely solutions taking
        account of the root causes identified and any existing schemes in place. Thames Water
        stressed again, however, that the final costing might be refined further as the detailed
        scopes were designed and implemented.




   203 The revised estimate of [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] was provided by Thames Water as part of its

   response to follow-on queries relating to its root cause analysis of potential non-compliance at its 157
   sites of concern (e.g. in a document entitled "WAAP Root Cause Analysis, January 2023" and in
   subsequent correspondence with the company about the scale and scope of its WAAP programme.
   204
       While Thames Water noted that the scope of improvement work to achieve compliance is likely to
   vary from site to site, it expected the work to include:
        • Inlet works e.g. modifications/new, replacement of existing and/or installation of new screens,
            balancing tanks
        • Storm Water e.g. weir modifications, pipework, pumps, storm tank
        • Return Liquors e.g new return liquor pumping stations, new pumps, relocation of return points
        • Flow meters e.g. installation of new, relocation of existing meters
        • Final settlement tanks e.g. installation of new tanks
        • Tertiary Treatment plant e.g. installation of new plant
        • Wash water systems
        • Final effluent chambers and pipework.

                                                     115
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

3.195    In terms of the timing of resolutions, Thames Water had told us that it was expecting
         that solutions at 73 of the 157 sites of concern would be delivered by the end of AMP7 205
         and a further 76 sites to have gone through its governance process and to have entered
         the delivery phase by this date. It also estimated that solutions at 136 sites of the 157
         sites of concern would be delivered by April 2028 and all 157 by the end of AMP8 206 - but
         noted, that the final prioritisation of sites for delivery is subject to the agreement with
         the Environment Agency.

3.196    In its business plan for PR24, Thames Water noted that it had shared with its regulators
         that "157 of our wastewater treatment works are ‘of concern’ in terms of meeting ‘flow to
         full treatment’ before storm discharges occur. This is unacceptable ..". It also noted that
         under its new Wastewater Asset Assurance Programme (WAAP), it proposed to invest
         £677 million in AMP8 "in these sites to reduce the risk of this non-compliance" 207.

3.197    The investment that Thames Water had estimated would be necessary to address FFT
         issues at its 157 sites of concern had increased again since its previous responses.
         Moreover, while it had previously told us that as part of its Compliance First plan FFT
         compliance issues would be addressed at the vast majority of its sites of concern during
         AMP7, from its business plan for PR24 that this would not now take place until AMP8.

3.198    In this business plan too, Thames Water had also noted that the compliance status of its
         other (197) WWTW, which were not identified as being ‘of concern’, would be kept under
         review as part of its WAAP. The plan further set out that during AMP7, the company
         would have surveyed all 197 sites to identify the investment and improvement needed.
         Where practicable and funding allows, it would reduce the risk of non-compliance.
         Where this was not possible the work would be phased into AMP9. "To the extent that our
         ongoing work in AMP7 and AMP8 identifies any further emerging risks, we will consider
         how we can address these by re-optimising our expenditure plan. We will also continue
         to implement, across all our sites, our business-as-usual systems and processes to
         identify permit breaches" 208.

3.199    In addition to investment under the WAAP to address FFT and DWF compliance concerns
         (at a number of sites), Thames Water's business plan for PR24 also proposed investment
         of £355 million to increase capacity at 15 specific WWTW to "provide treatment capacity


   205
       In its September 2024 response to the consultation on our draft decision, Thames Water told us
   that, at that stage, 24 of the 157 sites of concern had completed schemes to resolve the root causes
   which had been prioritised under the WAAP. It also noted that "subject to confirmation around funding
   for AMP8", the estimated delivery for remediation of all 157 sites of concern is at the end of AMP8.
   206
       This would mean that solutions at 73 sites would be delivered by end of AMP7; solutions at a further
   63 sites by April 2028 and solutions at the remaining 21 sites by the end of AMP8. Under the original
   Compliance First plan, Thames Water had told us that solutions at 94 of the 104 sites of concern would
   be delivered by the end of AMP7. The updated plan indicated that the timing at some sites had slipped
   further.
   207 Thames Water's business plan for PR24, page 116.
   208
       Ibid page 51.

                                                     116
              Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                  on Thames Water

           to a population equivalent to 96,700 people or 40,292 homes. This investment will allow
           us to remain compliant with our discharge permits" 209. 210

3.200      Having considered Thames Water business plan, Ofwat issued its draft determination for
           in July 2024. 211 In that we rejected Thames Water's request for £677 million under the
           WAAP in full because we considered that "any improvements required to address current
           non-compliance against existing permits must be addressed by companies, and we will
           not allow customers to pay for this". We noted that "Thames Water did not provide
           sufficient and convincing evidence to demonstrate that the enhancement is being
           sought in relation to a new compliance measure and not an issue on a pre-existing
           permit or to meet growth at these sites that has already been funded".

3.201      Following the publication of our PR24 draft determination, Thames Water submitted a
           further enhancement case for funding for the WAAP 212. In doing so, it argued that the
           funding was needed not just to address permit compliance issue at its sites of concern
           but also address population growth, changes to Environment Agency guidance and to
           statutory requirements. As a result of these drivers, and a better understanding of the
           likely costs needed to address the issues it had identified at its sites of concern, Thames
           Water also increased its request for funding for the WAAP to £1,044 million.

3.202      In our Final Determination for PR24 which was published in December 2024 213, we were
           not convinced by the new arguments and evidence that Thames Water had submitted to
           support its enhancement case, so its request for £1,044 million funding was not allowed.
           However, we also noted that "despite the issues with the evidence Thames Water has
           provided, we are concerned that Thames Water may not have sufficient capacity in its
           sewage treatment works [STW] to accommodate growth. Given the potential impact of
           growth in the Thames Water region, it is not in the best interests of customers and the
           environment to wait another five years for Thames Water to provide better evidence,
           given the potential wider impacts on housing and economic growth." In our Final
           Determination we therefore provided Thames Water with a £250 million growth at STWs
           gated allowance to allow it to double growth at sewage treatment expenditure over the




   209
         Ibid page 115.
   210 As part Thames Water's PR24 Enhancement Case Sewage Treatment Waste Asset Assurance

   Programme (WAAP) it also sought additional funding of £53.5 million for 5 WWTW that it claimed had
   new requirements because of Dry Weather Flow (DWF) increases. In our Final Determination for PR24,
   however, we noted that for these five WWTW, when queried, Thames Water stated the need for the
   investment is not driven by growth but instead by increases to DWF. However, Thames Water did not
   provide an explanation of the cause of this DWF increase.
   211
       Overview of Thames Water's PR24 Draft Determination, July 2024.
   212
       Thames Water's PR24 Enhancement Case Sewage Treatment Waste Asset Assurance Programme
   (WAAP).
   213
       Ofwat's PR24 Final Determination: Expenditure allowances – Thames Water asset improvement
   gated allowance appendix, page 10.

                                                       117
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         2025-30 period 214. In doing so, however, we also noted that the gated allowance will
         allow for substantially more scrutiny on in-period expenditure than we would normally
         apply; that the allowance will be conditional on Thames Water meeting the requirements
         of the process gates; and must be supported, as a minimum, with independent third-
         party assurance. Again, we underlined the fact that this allowance is not to enable
         Thames Water to comply with existing environmental permits (as this is already covered
         by the company's base expenditure allowances) and therefore to access the additional
         funds, Thames Water must set out how the expenditure is driven by growth in its
         catchment area.

3.203    From the above it is clear that Thames Water's understanding of the steps that it needs
         to take, and the investment that it needs to put in place, to ensure that it is able to
         comply with its regulatory obligation and that its assets have sufficient performance to
         enable them to meet local demand is still evolving. Similarly, Thames Water's timeframe
         for resolving issues across its WWTW estate and network has also continued to evolve. As
         noted above, it had originally informed us that issues that the majority of its sites of
         concern would be resolved by the end of AMP7. In its September 2024 response to the
         consultation on our draft decision, Thames Water told us that, at that stage, 24 of the 157
         sites of concern had completed schemes to resolve root causes which have been
         prioritised under Tranche 1 of the WAAP and that, "subject to confirmation around
         funding for AMP8" (which as noted above, was not allowed in Thames Water's PR24 Final
         Determination), the estimated delivery for remediation for its sites of concern was now
         the end of AMP8 215.

   Improving oversight of site performance

3.204    In addition to steps to address compliance issues at its sites of concern, and as set out
         previously, Thames Water has also taken steps to accelerate the roll-out of U_MON3 and
         U_MON4 monitors to enable it to have better oversight of the performance of its WWTW.

3.205    In an update provided in September 2024, for example, Thames Water told us that all
         U_MON 3 monitors had been installed and commissioned, were operational and had
         certificates of conformity, and were actively providing data which was being
         incorporated into the DAM tool. It also confirmed that 154 U_MON 4 monitors had been



   214
       As noted previously, as part of its Final Determination for PR24, Thames Water was also allowed £784
   million to reduce the number of spills from storm overflows by 2029-30. In addition, we also expect it
   to invest £1.2 billion to prevent harmful nutrients polluting rivers.
   215
       In its PR24 Enhancement Case Sewage Treatment Waste Asset Assurance Programme (WAAP)
   Thames Water noted that through ongoing engineering work and programme optimisation, it had
   rationalised the numbers of sites that require investment from 157 to 101. This included 31 sites which
   are now compliant or where a permit has been revoked or where an existing scheme is expected to
   address the compliance issue so no additional investment is needed. In addition, Thames Water
   included three sites where capital maintenance activity costing less than £100,000 would deliver a
   "quick win" and so would not need to be funded via the WAAP.

                                                     118
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         installed up to that point. This included monitors which had been planned under WINEP
         for AMP8 but which had been accelerated into AMP7.

3.206    With more data from monitors becoming available, Thames Water has also been able to
         make greater use of tools such as its DAM. As set out earlier, it has embedded this tool
         as part of its processes to improve its oversight of site performance. This, according to
         Thames Water, has given the company near real-time visibility of spills to the
         environment, spills to storm tanks and a view of FFT and environmental compliance
         more broadly. Thames Water told us that by using this tool it is able to collate and
         centralise FE, EDM and U_MON data from the company's monitors to gauge widescale
         compliance across the wastewater network, with any anomalies being flagged to
         operational teams for investigation 216. This enables teams to investigate the
         circumstances of a reported spill and to escalate within the company if necessary 217.

3.207    In addition to improvements to the visibility of data within the company, Thames Water
         also confirmed that in January 2023 it had launched a publicly accessible, online tool
         which uses data from its EDM monitors to provide live notifications at all 468 of its
         permitted storm overflow locations. This enables the public to see which overflows are
         discharging into a watercourse and the date and time of the last recorded discharge.
         Thames Water also told us that it is continuing to develop this tool by including
         additional information, such as, its investment plans for long-spilling sites. In a further
         update from the company, it explained that it is providing links from its map of its
         permitted storm overflows to a site-by-site overview of where it is investing to improve
         performance and would include a cumulative annual discharge duration total for each
         site, alongside a more detailed recent history. It was also considering how best to ensure




   216
       Thames Water also told us that in addition to enhanced monitoring capability, it has also developed
   a sophisticated data verification process to ensure the reliability and accuracy of monitoring data
   received. The company's Waste Control team has also been utilising the DAM tool to undertake daily
   checks of EDM data. On identification of an issue, the team check for monitor failure and then input
   requests for the operational team to investigate, following which decisions are made on risk and
   funding as necessary. Operational teams and the Waste Control team add notes to the DAM which the
   EDM team can use to assist with their data checks. Regular weekly reports are produced via the DAM
   tool to show indicative performance of each site against its requirements in its FFT permit, with
   monthly operations meetings held to review site performance and where necessary take actions to
   resolve failures (as explained in more detail below). Before EDM data is submitted to the Environment
   Agency for an annual return, the EDM team complete a deep dive on the data to ensure accuracy.
   217 Thames Water told us that the U_MON 3 and U_MON 4 data, which feeds into the DAM tool, is

   inputted into a weekly report which is then circulated to operations managers to identify opportunities
   for operational intervention, with “business as usual” low-risk and low-cost remediations occurring at
   an operational level, with escalations to the Environmental Governance Board (“EGB”) on a monthly
   basis for those solutions which require more complex scopes. It also told us that it has implemented
   improved programmes to strengthen the flow of information on compliance between operational
   teams “on the ground”, through the EGB to the Board and Executive (such as updated business forums,
   monthly sponsoring group meetings through the WAAP, changes to performance reporting within the
   EGB, and quarterly WAAP reports to the Board).

                                                    119
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         that it has the right technology infrastructure in place to enable it to make additional
         data available in future.

3.208    In relation to compliance beyond FFT permit conditions, and as set out previously,
         Thames Water told us that it has also implemented a Compliance Assessment System
         (CAS) across the business with the objective of providing enhanced transparency on its
         compliance position against all permit conditions, to escalate potential non-compliance,
         and to provide oversight of related improvement programmes.

3.209    While acknowledging the steps that the company has taken, and is now taking, to
         improve oversight of its WWTW estate and network, it is clear there is still a lot of work to
         do to ensure that it has full picture of its compliance position and the steps it need to
         take to resolve the issues it has already identified. As noted previously, this was
         underlined by the fact that in its 2022-23 annual EDM return to the Environment Agency,
         Thames Water identified 312 storm overflows which it had not previously listed, and
         which did not have EDMs in place, and many of which were also unpermitted. In
         addition, the fact that Thames Water's understanding of the root causes of compliance
         issues at its sites has changed during the course of our investigation, as has its
         understanding of the investment needed and the time it will take to resolve those issues,
         also suggests that the company does not yet have a complete understanding of its true
         compliance position.

   Enhanced governance and oversight of environmental compliance

3.210    In its January 2024 and September 2024 responses, Thames Water told us that it accepts
         that historically, its processes could have been better. However, it also stressed that as
         part of its Turnaround Plan it had made substantial enhancements to its governance and
         now claims to have sophisticated processes to address and remediate compliance issues
         at sites across its network. It also told us that within these processes there are now clear
         escalation routes to the Board and Executive (who remain apprised of compliance in any
         case), allowing for both reactive and proactive interventions.

3.211    Thames Water pointed, in particular, to its improved monitoring capability which now
         allows it to monitor the live performance of its assets, and to actively identify potential
         compliance issues. It noted that this data is subject to verification (for example, through
         the DAM tool) to identify any anomalies and is then assessed by the company's
         operational teams. Following risk (and cost) assessments, sites are then either
         remediated through “business as usual” asset maintenance, or escalated to the (now
         revamped) EGB for consideration 218. If escalated, the EGB will then either allocate the

   218
      Thames Water told us that its operational team assess the scale of potential non-compliance,
   including its risk classification and its likely remediation cost and that, broadly speaking, potential
   issues can fall into one of two categories for remediation. These are lower cost, “business as usual”
   asset maintenance issues which are managed and financed through its “Minor Capital Works” or


                                                      120
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        site to one of Thames Water's existing investment programmes (such as its Wastewater
        Asset Assurance Programme (WAAP) or WINEP) or, if the site is considered high-risk or
        is sufficiently costly, it will be escalated to the HSEC, and eventually the Executive and
        Board. Thames Water also noted that, in addition to reviewing escalated items of non-
        compliance, the Executive and Board, are also kept regularly appraised of Thames
        Water's remediation programmes.

3.212   In relation to its reporting and governance arrangements, Thames Water had previously
        informed us that it had introduced changes to ensure a clearer line of sight between the
        company's environmental permits non-compliance and the Executive Risk Committee,
        ARRC and the Board as part of the company's eight-year Turnaround Plan. 219

3.213   These changes to its internal governance arrangements included:

          •   Weekly Business Updates: to enable the Executive Committee to escalate key
              issues or insights from the day to day running of the business.
          •   Strategic Decision Making: monthly sessions to enable critical cross-cutting
              decisions on areas such as Strategy, Governance, Innovation, Growth, Resilience in
              the round and Culture to be considered.
          •   Business Performance Review: monthly review of performance and improvement
              activities, monitoring performance against PCs, ODIs, key risk metrics, strategic
              credibility metrics and budget. This, Thames Water told us, will improve line of
              sight between performance goals and delivery and allow for timely cross-functional
              trade-offs and interventions.

3.214   As part of these new governance arrangements, on a quarterly basis the Executive Risk
        Committee also now reviews the top current risks from across the business, any material
        improvements or deteriorations in existing risks, and any new risks and changes in the
        internal and external risk climate. Where they meet the threshold, these include non-
        compliance with environmental permits and other regulations. Thames Water states
        that the Executive Risk Committee now reviews and challenges the assessment and
        management of these risks. These risks are also now reported to the Board through its
        ARRC.

3.215   In addition to the steps outlined above, Thames Water told us that it has also been
        updating other of its internal “Business Forums” to give a clearer escalation route and
        information flow from the teams that consider flow compliance and other environmental

   “Directly Managed Capital” processes; or more costly issues that require additional funding to remedy,
   or issues that are more complex in risk (and therefore require a further root cause investigation or a
   fully engineered solution). In the latter case, sites are financed through Thames Water's “Stage Gate”
   process as an investment need, and then progressed to delivery of a solution (such as inclusion in the
   WAAP), with oversight from the EGB and, where required, the Executive Committee and Board.
   219
       The Turnaround Plan which was launched in March 2021 has three pillars: to fix the basics; to raise
   the bar and to shape the future.

                                                     121
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         matters to the Executive and Board 220. This updated reporting structure went live in
         January 2023. These new reporting lines and the mechanism by which information flows
         from its various organisational groupings (what Thames Water terms its "business
         forums") to the Executive and Board is set out in the following chart.

         Figure 3.3: Thames Water: Updated flow of information
                                               Board




                        HSE                                                ARRC
                                                                                                              Board

                                                                                                              Board Sub-
                                                                                                              Committees
                                                                                                              Executive
                                                               Executive                                      Committee
                                  Executive Risk               Strategic                                      s
                                    Committee                                                                 Executive
                                                               decision-                                      Sub-
                                                                making                                        Committees
                                                              Committee
                                                                                                              Business
                                                                                                              Forums



                               Environmental
                                                               WAAP
                              Governance Board




                                                          Pollution                           Environment,
          MCERTS Steering      Compliance                                         Escape of
                                                          Incident                            Pollution and
              Group              Pollution                                         Sewage
                                                       Reduction Plan                         Flow Meeting
                              Steering Group                                        Forum
                                                       Working Group



         Source: Thames Water


3.216    As part of the changes outlined above, Thames Water also set up a new Sponsoring
         Group to provide direction and visibility to its WAAP. The work captured by its
         Compliance First plan and the further investment that Thames Water identified will be
         needed to bring all 157 sites of concern back into compliance, will be delivered through
         the WAAP.

3.217    Thames Water has informed us that the WAAP was established in the Autumn 2022 to
         address and sustain compliance with all wastewater discharge permits and seeks to
         identify all potential compliance risks, establish the root causes of non-compliance and
         address these through operational solutions and capital investment projects. It is seen
         as a means by which the company can develop a programmatic approach to compliance
         with environmental permits, ensure a comprehensive understanding of risks and issues



   220
      In an update provided in its January 2024 response, Thames Water claimed that the flow of
   information has improved significantly within the company, with clearer minutes of business
   forum/governance body meetings, updated compliance papers and actions within the company. It also
   regularly reviews and updates the terms of reference for the relevant committees to reflect emerging
   risk.


                                                                 122
              Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                  on Thames Water

           and assure the systematic and coordinated delivery of solutions to a broader range of
           wastewater compliance issues than simply FFT.

3.218      Thames Water explained that although the initial focus has been on WWTW discharge
           permit compliance, the scope of the programme is increasing to provide oversight to
           investment and the operational activity necessary to ensure permit compliance across
           all of its wastewater assets. It also provides a management framework to monitor and
           coordinate new schemes with compliance-related investment already underway in other
           programmes (including WINEP, G2G and Compliance First) and gives a clear line of sight
           across all WWTW compliance issues.

3.219      As part of the WAAP implementation, governance and reporting has, according to
           Thames Water, also been reinforced through the establishment of this new Sponsoring
           Group 221 (previously known as the “Programme Board”), chaired by the Assets and
           Engineering Director who acts as the WAAP Sponsor. The Sponsoring Group is a sub-
           group of the EGB which oversees compliance and reports into the Executive and the
           Board.

3.220      In a further update from January 2024, Thames Water told us that the EGB had
           undergone further improvements to its governance structure which were finalised in
           April 2023. These improvements included a series of centrally governed monthly
           meetings (including Thames Water's steering groups), co-chaired by the Asset and
           Engineering Director and Operations Director. Within these meetings, escalated items
           from the operational teams are discussed with a resolution approved. Where possible
           (and commensurate to risk) assets are then progressed by the relevant sponsoring
           group (for example, the WAAP or WINEP sponsoring group) which will include the asset
           within the scope of their programme. The operational team will implement temporary
           mitigations in relation to these assets (to minimise the risk of any potential non-
           compliance) until remediation under the respective programme.

3.221      Where a failing asset is sufficiently great in risk or cost, there are now multiple
           escalation routes from the EGB to committees such as the HSEC, ARRC, and ultimately
           the Executive Committee and Board. For example, at each meeting the HSEC reviews an

   221
         According to Thames Water, the key functions of the Sponsoring Group are to:
          • Support the Sponsor (Engineering & Asset Director).
          • Drive the programme to deliver required outcomes and benefits within the agreed parameters.
          • Approve and ‘own’ WAAP Programme Brief and associated briefs for tranches of work and
             governs associated change control.
          • Confirm availability of business plan funding and provides decision making regarding funding
             amendment requests.
          • Point of escalation regarding programme blockers and enablers.
          • Ensure appropriate coordination and alignment across the programme.
          • Facilitate ‘line of sight’ between delivery, the Board (via ARRC) and business planning.
          • Confirmation of stakeholders and stakeholder management approach.
          • Validate programme planning assumptions (incl. prioritisation).


                                                       123
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

        environment paper which includes (where relevant) items raised by the EGB noting
        compliance risks and recommendations. These recommendations have a direct
        escalation route to the Executive Steering and Decision Making Forum, which then
        escalate to the Executive Performance Meeting for a decision in line with the Board
        where required.

3.222   In addition to the substantive enhancements to its investigation and resolution
        pathways, Thames Water also told us that it had also enhanced the synergy between its
        main investment programmes, the WAAP (which is aimed at addressing potential permit
        compliance issues at WWTW) and the WINEP (which implements, amongst other things,
        future legal requirements and the objectives of the SODRP). This new approach aims
        towards holistic solutions to compliance risk and required asset upgrades/remediation,
        where potential concerns are not considered in isolation. For example, if network
        permitted sites and WWTW are addressed within the same remedial system, solutions
        tackling flow at source will gain greater weight when considering remedial or
        investment options, because such solutions will have wider holistic system benefits as
        opposed to a narrow site-by site assessment. Thames Water explained that, where
        possible, the scope of both WAAP and WINEP have been grouped together to drive
        efficiencies as well as ensuring that improvements at a particular site are not solely
        designed to address the issue triggering intervention, but instead consider all projects
        required to be undertaken at the relevant site during the AMP and deliver them as one
        combined project.

3.223   By combining WAAP and WINEP, Thames Water claims that this ensures a robust,
        forward looking and proactive approach to compliance and remediation, and ensures
        that its assets can meet both current and future compliance needs. Thames Water also
        told us that it is confident that this process now delivers a system-wide, synergistic
        approach to assessing and remedying compliance concerns.

3.224   The Sponsoring Group now meets monthly to discuss and endorse programme decisions
        and to provide direction to the business. This includes, for example, the prioritisation of
        funding for FFT sites, strategic business risks around potential non-compliance and how
        funding should be prioritised, and the performance of its delivery programmes (delivery
        versus baseline, expected cost outturns, risks, and other areas). Should issues within
        this Sponsoring Group fail to be resolved, they are escalated to the EGB (with further
        escalation to the Executive as described above).

3.225   More widely, WAAP updates are now provided to the EGB every two months. Thames
        Water also noted that WAAP is also discussed at a high level monthly meeting with the
        Environment Agency and a quarterly update on WAAP is provided directly to the Board
        ensuring direct oversight of the programme at Board level.

3.226   Furthermore, Thames Water told us that the legal requirements tracker (which was
        recommended as part of the company's 2019 “Lines of Defence” audit) to identify

                                                   124
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

         potential compliance failures is operational with a monthly performance programme. As
         part of this process, there are weekly flow and pollution meetings to track flow
         compliance data and corrective actions identified in the tracker. Thames Water noted
         that while actions from these meetings can mostly be resolved locally without the need
         for escalation to the EGB, if further action is necessary, the Chair of these meetings can
         escalate matters directly to the Operations Director (the Chair of the EGB).

3.227    Finally, Thames Water told us in January 2024 that in order to ensure that it has
         sufficient governance oversight over the company’s compliance position, there is now a
         dedicated role for this which includes responsibility for oversight over the Environmental
         Management System 222.

   Measures to reduce spills to the environment

3.228    Thames Water told us that the use of data from its EDM monitors to have near real-time
         visibility of discharges from its storm overflows is part of an overarching plan which goes
         beyond addressing compliance risk and aims to achieve zero spills by 2050 by tackling
         the primary root causes. This, according to Thames Water, means going beyond the
         improvement of its own assets, to tackle a number of other issues that cause spills,
         including ground water infiltration and surface water ingress – which account for a
         significant proportion of the spills from its overflow assets.

3.229    Its ambitions for reducing spills, pollutions incidents and improving river quality in its
         region have been set out in a number of published plans. These include its PIRP 223 with
         an ambition to reduce the number of pollution incidents in its area by 30% by 2025, as
         well as its plans for to reduce harm to river water quality 224; its investment plans to
         tackle discharges at individual storm overflow sites 225; as well as in its Drainage and
         Wastewater Management Plan (DWMP) and Storm Overflow Draft Reduction Plan
         (SODRP) 226. As part of these plans, Thames Water claims to have "fundamentally
         increased the scale and pace of our storm overflow discharge reduction plan, which is
         an integral part of our DWMP and wider strategic and delivery programmes. We have set
         ambitious targets in our delivery programme to ensure our storm overflow discharges do


   222
       Thames Water also told us that it was planning a review of its EMS relation to its outputs or training,
   standards, and communications across the business to identify improvements and updates.
   223
       Thames Water's Pollution Incident Reduction Plan.
   224
       Thames Water's plans for investing in river health.
   225
       Thames Water's Investment plans for storm discharge sites.
   226
       In our Final Determination for PR24, we noted that over 2025-30, we expect Thames Water to deliver
   a 29% reduction in spills from storm overflows and reduce pollution incidents by 30%. As part of its
   overall expenditure allowance, Thames Water was allowed £784 million to reduce the number of spills
   from storm overflows. This expenditure is expected to cover improvement actions such as increasing
   treatment capacity at sewage works, providing storage for high flows, reducing flows entering the
   system and the provision of treatment for storm overflows which are separate from the main treatment
   route. We also noted that we expect it to invest £1.2 billion to prevent harmful nutrients polluting
   rivers.

                                                      125
             Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                 on Thames Water

           no environmental harm. The most sensitive areas have been prioritised as our initial
           focus, so we can turn around our performance as quickly as we can" 227.

   Addressing stakeholder concerns

3.230      During the course of our investigation, Thames Water told us that it is determined to
           rebuild trust with its local communities and stakeholders. In addition to the measures
           set out in Compliance First and WAAP and in its SODRP and DWMP, it is also taking steps
           to improve transparency and make data on discharges from its sites more openly
           available. This, it is hoped, will enable river users to make informed judgements about
           the advisability of taking part in recreational activities on their local river. More widely, it
           will allow customers and stakeholders to have an up-to-date picture of what is
           happening across Thames Water's infrastructure and to ask questions or hold it to
           account where necessary. Thames Water told us that it recognises that in some cases,
           particularly where there is a lack of trust, ‘seeing is believing’. This has led the company
           to install web cams covering storm discharge locations at a number of its WWTW, with
           live feeds provided via the internet to interested stakeholders.

3.231      Thames Water also told us that once its plans for eliminating risks of non-compliance
           are finalised it will publish them on its website and explain them to its Catchment
           Partnerships and other local stakeholders. It will report progress against its plan at least
           annually, setting out where it has made improvements in both its assets and monitoring
           systems, as well as reporting progress at regular meetings, to enable stakeholders to
           comment on progress. Where there are particular concerns, it will also work with local
           councils to deliver roadshows, explaining what it is planning to do, why and by when.

3.232      Thames Water acknowledged that engaging in ongoing discussions with its diverse array
           of environmental stakeholders has proved challenging and resource intensive. It noted,
           however, that the establishment of the Catchment Partnerships, under the
           Government’s Catchment Based Approach 228 initiative, had given the company a
           mechanism to work with the majority of local environmental stakeholders in its region.
           According to Thames Water it has a dedicated representative on each of the 27
           Catchment Partnerships in its area but also noted that these partnerships are at
           differing levels of maturity, with some having dedicated offices and employing more
           than ten full time staff, while others are composed entirely of voluntary organisations
           and individuals working in their spare time. As a result, its engagement model varies
           with each partnership depending on their capacity and needs.

3.233      Thames Water explained that this collaborative approach is particularly important where
           compliance issues are caused, or exacerbated, by excess surface water arriving at the
           WWTW. Working with local stakeholder groups can help to identify the sources of such


   227
         Thames Water's Drainage and Wastewater Management Plan 2025–2050, May 2023, page 7.
   228
         Catchment Based Approach: Improving the quality of our water environment.

                                                      126
             Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                 on Thames Water

           inflows and target activity to address them. The company also pointed to its engagement
           processes for its long-term plans for water resources and drainage and wastewater.
           While recognising that its current potential non-compliance requires an immediate and
           short-term response, Thames Water also noted the importance that this response sits
           within the context of the company's long-term plans for drainage and wastewater. Going
           forward, through the DWMP framework, it will ensure that compliance with flow limits is
           given adequate consideration in its assessment of baseline risk and vulnerabilities, and
           that, working with partners in each area, its long-term plans adequately address any
           emerging flow compliance risks 229.

3.234      The company also pointed to its Smarter Water Catchment initiatives (on the Rivers
           Chess, Crane and Evenlode) which are designed to test and refine this collaborative way
           of working, through the co-creation of agreed management plans. Each plan is intended
           to highlight key areas which are important to all stakeholders in the recovery of these
           river catchments and to detail the actions that must be taken to address them.

3.235      In addition to its work with local environmental groups and stakeholders, Thames Water
           also told us it recognised how concerned its customers are about the environment and
           the impact of its activities on it. Between July and September 2021, it commissioned
           customer research into the relative preferences across ten public value initiatives. River
           health and Thames Water's ambition to achieve zero pollution incidents were the topics
           of greatest interest to participants. This, it told us, was consistent with the conclusions
           from other customer research the company had undertaken, including its December
           2021 research of a sample of customers from its Customers' Voice panel to enable it to
           understand what actions they would see as being appropriate ‘to put things right’.

3.236      That research found that most respondents wanted greater transparency from Thames
           Water as to how much damage was being done by its non-compliance and what it was
           doing to prevent it happening in the future. The majority also believed that Thames
           Water was not currently doing enough to rectify this issue, and that its response was too
           slow. The findings also showed that customers were clear that a fine should act as a
           deterrent and motivate Thames Water to put things right but also expressed the view
           that companies can regard fines as being a ‘cost of doing business’ rather than a
           deterrent to non-compliance. Thames Water also noted that a minority of those who
           participated in the research were sympathetic to the situation Thames Water was in and
           thought that, on this occasion, it should not be fined but should work with Ofwat to
           resolve the issue. However, irrespective of action taken, participants in the customer
           research were almost unanimous in wanting Thames Water to be compliant as soon as
           possible.




   229
         Thames Water's Drainage and Wastewater Management Plan.

                                                      127
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

3.237    According to Thames Water, these research findings aligned with feedback received
         separately from the Chair of its Customer Challenge Group 230, who expressed the view
         that many customers would prefer to see Thames Water speeding up its timeframes for
         action rather than deductions from bills to account for its underperformance. The
         company also engaged with CCW to discuss its approach to, and the findings of, the
         customer research.

3.238    Thames Water told us that the following actions have been informed by the evidence
         from its customer research:

           •   Transparency about corrective actions being untaken, for example, the proactive
               provision of information to stakeholders including sharing more details about the
               Ofwat and Environment Agency investigations and the publication of its plans for
               eliminating risks of flow non-compliance on its website. It will also report progress
               against its plan at least annually, setting out where it has made improvements in
               both its assets and its monitoring systems to enable stakeholders to comment on
               progress.

           •   Acceleration of works necessary to rectify any instances of flow non-compliance,
               for example, accelerating the installation of monitors at high risk sites and steps to
               bring sites back into compliance.

           •   Investment in the environment. Thames Water noted that in view of the number of
               its WWTW that have been at risk of non-compliance and the difficulty of identifying
               the location, duration and extent of any negative environmental impacts, it
               believes the most appropriate way to provide additional investment in the
               environment was through Catchment Partnerships in its area. While Thames Water
               had been providing financial and other support to a number of local partnerships
               via its Catchment Partnerships Support (CaPS) Fund, it is understood that it is no
               longer offering catchment funding or bespoke water quality improvement projects
               but hopes to resume these projects in 2025.




   230
      Customer Challenge Groups were set up a number of years ago to ensure that customer interests
   and priorities were reflected in water companies' business planning processes and that the company's
   actions were subject to additional scrutiny. These Groups are independently chaired and consist of a
   cross-section of customers or their representatives.

                                                    128
      Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                          on Thames Water

4. Our assessment and findings

Introduction and overview
4.1   As required by section 22A(6) of the WIA91, we set out the statutory provisions and
      relevant licence conditions that we consider Thames Water has breached and explain
      our assessment of the evidence we have considered in reaching our conclusion. We
      have also taken account of the responses that we received to the consultation on our
      draft decision.

4.2   For the reasons set out further below, we are satisfied that, from at least 2017, Thames
      Water has contravened Regulations 4(4)(a) and Regulation 4(2) and Schedule 2
      UWWTR by failing to ensure that its WWTW and collecting systems are designed,
      constructed, operated and maintained adequately according to the standards and
      requirements set out in these regulations. These breach are in themselves breaches of
      section 94 WIA91.

4.3   The magnitude and extent of Thames Water’s contraventions of the UWWTR is
      significant, widespread and has persisted over an extended period. Accordingly, we
      are satisfied that in addition to these UWWTR breaches, this indicates a systemic
      failure by the company to make appropriate provision for effectually providing
      drainage and dealing with the contents of sewers and, therefore, itself constitutes a
      breach of section 94 WIA91.

4.4   We are also satisfied that, from at least 2017, Thames Water has contravened
      paragraph 12 of Condition P by failing to ensure it had adequate financial and
      management resources and systems of planning and internal control in place to carry
      out its regulated activities and, in particular, to manage and operate its WWTW to
      ensure compliance with UWWTR and section 94 WIA91.

4.5   As outlined in Section 3, this view has been reached following a lengthy investigation
      during which we made multiple detailed requests for information and data to Thames
      Water. In addition to the hundreds of documents provided by the company, we
      reviewed environmental performance and spills data published by the Environment
      Agency and considered relevant information provided to Ofwat by stakeholders,
      including eNGOs, in Thames Water's area. We have also taken into account the
      responses that we received to the consultation on our draft decision.

4.6   As noted previously, our investigation broadened from issues related to FFT to wider
      concerns about Thames Water's management of its wastewater treatment network as
      more evidence was uncovered. This evidence has revealed a failure by the company to
      have a clear view or understanding about the state of its wastewater assets (including
      the actual number of storm overflows on its network); about how its assets were

                                               129
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       actually performing; and, therefore, about whether these assets were being managed
       and operated in a manner which was compliant with the company's obligations under
       UWWTR and section 94 WIA91. Moreover, even when Thames Water was aware of
       compliance risks, it failed to address these risks in an appropriate and timely manner
       and, therefore, essentially chose to accept ongoing non-compliance across a
       significant portion of its estate.

4.7    In the following sections, we consider each of the statutory provisions and relevant
       licence conditions that we consider Thames Water has breached.

Findings in relation to a breach of the UWWTR
4.8    As set out in Section 2, Regulation 4 UWWTR requires a water company to ensure that
       its WWTW plants are designed, constructed, operated and maintained to ensure that
       spills only occur in exceptional or unforeseeable circumstances in all local climatic
       conditions, subject to the BTKNEEC test. As explained previously, we have considered
       both the extent to which:

           a) the company's assets comply with the requirements of Regulation 4 UWWTR
              (that is, in terms of whether they are providing sufficient performance), and

           b) the extent to which the company has met its obligation under Regulation 4
              UWWTR to ensure that its assets continue to meet the relevant standards (that
              is, how it has gone about ensuring that they provide sufficient performance).

4.9    While Ofwat is not responsible for assessing and enforcing breaches of environmental
       permits, non-compliance with the conditions of those permits is a strong indicator
       that duties under Regulation 4 UWWTR are not being met, as it might point to the
       asset no longer having the capacity to meet sufficient performance or to inadequate
       operation and maintenance of the asset to enable sufficient performance. These are
       not the only indicators we have looked at, however, and compliance with a permit does
       not necessarily equal compliance with the requirements of Regulation 4.

Regulation 4(4) UWWTR: Failure to meet local demand in normal climatic
conditions at specific WWTW

Failure to meet FFT permit levels

4.10   As explained in Section 3 above, as a result of our investigation and Thames Water's
       assessment of its FFT compliance position, it has identified 157 sites of concern (that
       is, sites potentially non-compliant with FFT or other environmental permit conditions).
       These sites are listed in Appendix A3.




                                                130
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

4.11   While we appreciate that in carrying out its assessment Thames Water adopted a
       cautious approach and also included sites where underperformance may have been
       marginal, the fact that these sites of concern accounted for almost two-thirds of all its
       sites with FFT permits or TDCs indicates significant compliance issues across its
       estate. The breakdown provided by Thames Water showed that 88 WWTW, as it
       acknowledges, were clearly underperforming (and by implication were not capable of,
       or did not have the capacity to, meet the FFT requirement in its permit). In addition,
       Thames Water identified 41 sites which it said demonstrated a capability of meeting
       FFT at times but were not doing so consistently; a further 16 sites which Thames Water
       categorised as marginally underperforming sites (but which it also noted were
       typically achieving only 80-92% FFT on average); and 12 sites which it had assessed as
       being generally compliant, but which had signs of a one-off, potentially non-
       compliant, event.

4.12   Thames Water has sought to argue that as it has now determined that 48 of its 157
       sites of concern serve agglomerations with a population equivalent of less than
       2,000 231, that these sites should be excluded from the scope of our investigation and
       our assessment of the company's compliance with Regulation 4 UWWTR. However, as
       we have explained previously, while Regulation 4(2) imposes obligations in respect of
       the provision of collecting systems “for every agglomeration with a population
       equivalent of 2,000 or more”, Regulation 4(4) does apply to smaller agglomerations,
       because, (i) the obligation is to ensure that water is, before discharge, “subject to
       treatment provided in accordance with regulation 5”, and (ii) although regulation 5
       imposes specific obligations as regards the treatment plants that must be in place in
       respect of larger agglomerations, it also requires “appropriate treatment” of water
       from agglomerations of less than 2,000. In our view, therefore, all 157 of Thames
       Water's WWTW which it has identified as sites of concern are also covered by
       Regulation 4(4).

4.13   The scale of the potential FFT non-compliance that Thames Water has identified
       across its WWTW estate is extremely concerning. It is also concerning that during the
       course of our investigation it became clear that the company did not have a complete
       picture of its actual compliance position as it found more sites of concern as our
       investigation progressed. It also acknowledged in its responses to our section 203
       notices that the picture could change again as it was not confident that it had a full
       understanding of its true compliance position. This in itself points to the company
       failing to ensure that it was providing for, operating and maintaining its assets
       consistent with the requirements of Regulation 4(4) UWWTR. The company was also


  In its January 2024 response to our provisional findings, Thames Water told us that "As of [January
231

2024, it] considers that 226 storm overflows serve agglomerations with a PE below 2,000. This includes,
notably, 35 of the 157 sites of concern.” In its September 2024 response to the consultation on Ofwat's
draft decision, Thames Water told us that following a further assessment, the number of its sites of
concern serving agglomerations with a PE of less than 2,000 was now 48. These sites are identified in
Appendix A3.

                                                 131
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       initially unable to identify the root cause of potential FFT non-compliance at many of
       those sites and it was only after several further information requests that the company
       was finally able to do so.

4.14   As set out in Section 3 above (Table 3.3), the results of Thames Water's analysis
       showed that almost all of the sites of concern had multiple root causes for failing FFT
       permit requirements. Data quality issues arising from monitor installation and
       maintenance were identified at close to 90% of the sites (and are seen as ongoing
       issues until U_MON3 and U_MON4 monitors are fully commissioned, tested, certified
       and in operational use). Outside of these data quality issues, poor flow control and
       management was found at 83% of sites and a lack of treatment resilience at 72% of
       sites. Hydraulic capacity restrictions were identified at almost 50% of the sites of
       concern and almost 50% were found to also have issues with site and storm tank
       returns. As we explained in Section 3 and further below, Thames Water has also
       consistently failed to address a number of compliance issues for sites it has identified
       as part of its G2G programme established in 2017.

4.15   We recognise that Thames Water has begun to take steps to address FFT compliance
       issues at its sites, and improve its ability to monitor and manage potential compliance
       risks in a more effective and timely manner. As part of its revised plan for PR24232, for
       example, it included proposals to invest £1,044 million under its WAAP to address
       compliance issues at its sites of concern 233. This was increased from the £677 million
       included in its initial business plan as, according to Thames Water, it also included
       measures to address population grown and climate change, not just restoring
       compliance with permit conditions.

4.16   However, the scale of the investment that Thames Water has estimated that will now
       be needed to address compliance issues across its estate also serves to underline the
       scale and scope of the issues that the company has identified during the course of our
       investigation. It represents a further revision of the investment that it had previously
       estimated would be needed and also represents a further delay in the delivery of
       solutions at these sites. As noted previously, Thames Water had originally told us that
       it had planned to restore compliance at the majority of its sites of concern by the end
       of AMP7 under its Compliance First plan. However, in its September 2024 response to
       our draft decision, Thames Water told us that, at that stage, 24 of the 157 sites of
       concern had completed schemes to resolve root causes which have been prioritised
       under Tranche 1 of the WAAP and that, "subject to confirmation around funding for
       AMP8" (which as noted previously, was not allowed in Thames Water's Final
       Determination for PR24), the estimated delivery for remediation for its sites of concern
       was now the end of AMP8, that is, by 2030. This means, therefore, that compliance

232 Thames Water's PR24 Enhancement Case Sewage Treatment Waste Asset Assurance Programme

(WAAP).
  As noted earlier, Thames Water's Final Determination for PR24 also includes an allowance of £784
233

million to enable it to reduce the number of spills from storm overflows by 29% by 2029-30.

                                                 132
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       issues at many of Thames Water's sites of concern will have persisted for a very
       extended period of time.

4.17   As explained in Section 2, Regulation 4(4) UWWTR requires that water companies
       ensure that their WWTW assets are designed, constructed, operated and maintained
       to ensure sufficient performance under all normal local climatic conditions, subject to
       exceptional circumstances and BTKNEEC assessment. This means that Thames Water
       needs to ensure that its WWTW assets are able to deal with the normal flows from the
       collecting systems in their catchment in order and have processes to identify and
       respond to changes in the catchment and the resulting flows in its collecting systems,
       to ensure their assets remain fit for purpose for handling these.

4.18   Given the extent of the infrastructural, operational and management issues which
       Thames Water has identified at so many of its WWTW, it is clear that the company's
       processes have not been effective in ensuring its assets are able to meet local demand
       in normal climatic conditions and/or perform sufficiently. It will take a number of years
       for Thames Water to address the issues at these sites of concern and it has not
       provided evidence to show that these issues did not lead to environmental harm or
       that it would be disproportionately costly to address them under BTKNEEC. We are
       therefore satisfied that Thames Water has breached and, until such time as the
       solutions it has identified to address the causes of non-compliance at its sites of
       concern have been implemented, it continues to be in breach of Regulation 4(4)
       UWWTR.

Failure to meet other environmental permit conditions

4.19   While the root cause analysis outlined above relates specifically to FFT non-
       compliance, data provided by Thames Water also indicated compliance concerns in
       respect to other aspects of how its WWTW are designed, constructed, operated and
       maintained. As set out in Section 3, data obtained during the course of our
       investigation indicated a deterioration in the company's DWF compliance position with
       increasing numbers of sites failing to meet DWF permit conditions on at least one
       occasion and an increasing number of sites seeing an erosion in headroom and
       therefore at greater risk of failing. In addition, of its 157 sites of concern, it identified
       issues with storm tank capacity at 57 of these sites.

4.20   Data provided by Thames Water indicated that 78 (28%) of the sites with a DWF permit
       requirement for which it was able to provide information had failed to meet their Q80
       DWF permit conditions at least once in the five-year period from 2017 to 2021; 46 sites
       (16%) had failed Q90 at least once in those five years; 23 sites (8%) had failed Q90
       twice in those five years; and ten sites (4%) had failed to meet Q90 at least three times




                                                133
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       in that five-year period.234 Failure to meet the DWF level in permits can indicate that a
       WWTW no longer has the capacity required to deliver sufficient performance under
       Regulation 4 (4) UWWTR under normal local climatic conditions.

4.21   This evidence on the number of sites failing, or at risk of failing, to meet Q80 and Q90
       DWF permit limits was known and was being flagged within the company and was
       acknowledged as being due, at least in part, to investment not having kept pace with
       changes in local catchments. In a February 2022 report, for example, Thames Water
       noted regarding compliance with its Q90 flow levels that "currently we have 46 failing
       sites in total. If any of these sites fail for a second year then we could have at least 21
       sites at “failed” status by end of 2025 (unless issues fully resolved). 235 This position was
       also discussed at an Executive Performance Review meeting. In that instance, Thames
       Water also noted that “as investment has not kept up with growth” the company could
       have more than 20 failing sites by 2025236.

4.22   With respect to the ten sites which failed to meet Q90 at least three times between
       2017 and 2021, it is clear to us that there are unresolved design, construction,
       maintenance and/or operational issues and that Thames Water has therefore failed to
       ensure that these sites are meeting the requirements of the UWWTR. Accordingly, it
       has breached and continues to be in breach of Regulation 4(4) UWWTR for those sites.

4.23   The fact that a site fails to meet its Q80 permit limit (especially if this happens on a
       persistent or recurring basis), and/or it fails to meet its Q90 permit limit fewer than
       three times in five years, may be a warning sign that the site's performance is
       deteriorating. It should act as a trigger to prompt a company to investigate the
       relevant assets to check their operation and consider if they have sufficient capacity
       to deal with the local demand and whether it needs to, for example, upgrade them or
       contact the Environment Agency to ask for an update to the associated permit
       conditions. In Thames Water's case, as shown in Figure 1 in Section 3 above, it is clear
       that a significant proportion of its WWTW have seen an erosion in headroom and with
       many operating between 90%-100% and >100% of their DWF Q80 levels

4.24   The fact that 57 of the sites of concern that Thames Water has identified also have
       storm tank capacity issues reinforces our finding of Regulation 4(4) UWWTR breach.

4.25   In arriving at our findings we also considered whether there were mitigating
       circumstances that should be taken into account in our assessment of Thames Water's
       compliance with Regulation 4(4) UWWTR (that is, if there were exceptional


234 These sites were Ashton Keynes, Bilbury, Chieveley, Chilton Foliat, Great Gaddesden, Huntercombe,

Lewknor, Longborough, Slough and Thornwood.
235
    Environmental Compliance and Pollution Review Meeting, 4 February 2022 report for the South
region (slides 9 and 20). Documents provided by Thames Water as part of its response in August 2022.
236
    Slide pack for Executive Performance Review meetings February 2022, meeting date 18th March
2022, (slide 75).

                                                 134
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

          circumstances, no environmental harm or a BTKNEEC exception). However, Thames
          Water was unable to demonstrate that any of these exceptions applied. In fact,
          Thames Water is now taking steps to address these compliance issues and risks as
          part of its WAAP programme. It is proposing to increase investment to ensure that its
          WWTW meet the stipulated storm storage and overflow requirements. In addition,
          outside of the WAAP programme, it proposed investment of £355 million as part of its
          business plan for AMP8 to increase capacity at 15 WWTW. According to the company,
          this investment is intended to "provide treatment capacity to a population equivalent
          to 96,700 people or 40,292 homes. This investment will allow us to remain compliant
          with our discharge permits." 237

4.26      While we welcome these proposed steps, we consider that Thames Water should have
          acted sooner to remedy the issues identified. There will be a number of years before
          these issues are fully resolved and that this, in turn, means that compliance issues
          and risks at many of Thames Water's WWTW will have persisted for an extended period
          of time.

Failure to limit discharges from storm overflows at WWTW

4.27      As discussed in Section 2, the purpose of the UWWTR is to ensure that under all
          normal weather conditions, the wastewater collected by a catchment area's sewer
          system is treated to a required standard before discharge. Untreated discharges to
          the environment should therefore only occur in exceptional circumstances or where
          the costs of reducing harm are disproportionate to the environmental benefit that
          would be gained (the BTKNEEC test), and companies should minimise any adverse
          impacts to the environment arising from these discharges.

4.28      We consider that companies should treat 20 spills per year as a material indicator of a
          breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR which requires further investigation to ensure
          compliance. In the absence of the relevant evidence that there has been exceptional
          circumstances, that no environmental harm has arisen or a BTKNEEC exception exists,
          we will consider storm overflows having 20 or more spills a year as evidence that they
          are probably in breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR. We consider that storm overflows that
          are discharging 20 times or more, where there is no evidence of exceptional
          circumstances, and it is clear there is a BTKNEEC solution (including operational
          solutions) which has not been implemented are clearly in breach of Regulation 4
          UWWTR. Likewise if a company cannot evidence that it has investigated apparent
          routine discharges and taken appropriate remedial action in a timely way, or is in the
          process of investigating such, we consider a company to have breached or to be in
          breach of Regulation 4.




237
      Thames Water's business plan for PR24, page 115.

                                                    135
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

4.29   As set out in Table 3.6, analysis of Thames Water's EDM data shows that the majority of
       the storm overflows at its WWTW have been spilling on such a regular basis that the
       circumstances cannot be considered to be exceptional. In 2021 238 171 storm overflows
       associated with Thames Water's WWTW, (that is 73%), recorded 20 or more spills. In
       2022 (which is considered to have been a relatively dry year) the proportion of storm
       overflows associated with Thames Water's WWTW that spilled 20 or more times
       reduced to 46.5%, but it increased again in 2023, to 69.2%.

4.30   Absent evidence of exceptional circumstances or a BTKNEEC exemption, the fact that
       storm overflows at the WWTW in question are being used so regularly would indicate
       either that Thames Water lacks sufficient capacity at the WWTW to treat the sewage
       being received by the works under normal climatic conditions, or that sufficient
       capacity does exist but that the WWTW is not being operated properly so as to
       appropriately utilise it. In either scenario, Thames Water would be contravening the
       requirements of Regulation 4(4) UWWTR.

4.31   However, as we explained in Section 2, where a company can demonstrate that it has
       reasonably applied the legal tests of Regulation 4 UWWTR and concluded that spills
       were due to exceptional circumstances, that there was no resulting environmental
       harm, or that there is no BTNKEEC solution available to reduce harm from discharges,
       the issues identified would likely not amount to a breach of Regulation 4(4) with
       respect to that site. We have therefore also considered the information contained in
       the company's annual EDM returns to the Environment Agency as well as the
       additional information provided by Thames Water in respect of its investigations of
       sites which were triggered under SOAF (this is, the sites which spilled more than 60
       times). As highlighted in Table 3.6, of the 171 storm overflows associated with Thames
       Water's WWTW which had spilled more than 20 times in 2021, 70 had recorded over 60
       spills. (This reduced to 11% in 2022 but increased again, to 41%, in 2023).

4.32   We have considered the evidence put forward by Thames Water of the SOAF
       investigations it has carried out to assess whether any exceptional circumstances
       existed or whether appropriate BTKNEEC exemptions exist for its highest spilling sites.
       The information that Thames Water provided does not map across consistently to the
       data on the individual sites which are reported as spilling more than 60 times in the
       Environment Agency's published reports. As a result, it is not altogether clear how
       advanced the investigations of other high spilling sites are (particularly as it can take
       a number of years for all stages of the SOAF process to be completed and some sites
       which were high spilling in 2021 may have already had a SOAF investigation underway
       because they had also been high spilling in a previous year.) Nevertheless, we have




238
   The data that Thames Water provided in response to our section 203 notices on the performance of
its wastewater assets related primarily to 2021 so this has been used as the "base year" for our
assessment of its performance against a number of other indicators too.

                                                136
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       reviewed this information and have taken it into account in our penalty assessment.
       We set out the approach that we have adopted below.

Sites spilling frequently due to asset maintenance issues

4.33   For sites triggered for investigation under SOAF, where the root cause of high spills
       was identified as being operational and maintenance (asset maintenance) issues, we
       have taken this into account in our penalty assessment if the cause of the spill has not
       been rectified within the calendar year (as is required under SOAF) so that it
       continues to record high spills in the following year. For example, for sites which
       spilled more than 60 times in 2021 due to asset maintenance reasons we consider that
       site to have not only breached UWWTR but have also included in in our penalty
       assessment if that site also spilled 20 or more times in 2022 as this indicates that the
       cause of the spill has not been resolved as is required under SOAF.

4.34   As noted in Section 3, over 60% of Thames Water's sites were which were triggered for
       investigation under SOAF in 2021 (that is, had spilled more than 60 times) were found
       to have done so because of asset maintenance issues. Similarly, 63% of all the sites
       that Thames Water had told us it had assessed as part of the SOAF process, did not
       progress beyond Stage 1 as they were found to be due to asset maintenance and
       operational issues. The fact that spills at so many of the company's highest spilling
       sites are due to asset maintenance issues is concerning. In our view, a company
       should be able to operate and manage its assets to prevent issues occurring in the
       first place. Spills due to asset maintenance issues should be the exception and not, as
       appears to be the case with Thames Water, the norm.

4.35   Furthermore, if and when a site has recorded high spill numbers due to asset
       maintenance reasons, we would expect the company to act swiftly to resolve those
       issues to prevent the site also recording high spills in subsequent periods: where
       there is an available operational or maintenance fix, carrying out that work would
       almost inevitably constitute a viable BTKNEEC solution, in which case the failure to
       carry out the work would constitute a breach of Regulation 4(4). It appears that
       Thames Water has failed to carry out such operational and maintenance fixes in
       relation to several of its assets with the result that a significant number of sites which
       had spilled more than 60 times in 2021 continued to record 20 or more spills in 2022.

4.36   In its response to the consultation on our draft decision, Thames Water argued that we
       had "likely overstated" the number of its storm overflows which we had included in our
       penalty assessment. This is because, under SOAF, while sites which are high spilling
       due to asset maintenance issues are expected to be remediated within the calendar
       year, where infiltration is identified as the reason for the spill, "it is recognised that
       investigation and resolution of infiltration issues can be difficult, that solutions may be




                                                137
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       iterative, and that infiltration reduction plans may only succeed over the medium to
       long-term".239

4.37   To ensure that we considered this point fully, therefore, we sought further information
       from Thames Water on the number of its storm overflows where infiltration was
       identified as the main cause of the high spills. We also requested details of whether an
       infiltration reduction plan was in place for the particular storm overflow (as is required
       under SOAF); the date the plan had originally been developed and when it was last
       reviewed; whether the plan had been agreed with the Environment Agency 240; and
       information on the company's progress in delivering that plan and the actions it has
       taken to resolve infiltration issues at its sites.

4.38   In its response to our information request, Thames Water also told us that a number of
       sites which were initially recorded as spilling due to infiltration were subsequently
       found to have hydraulic capacity or other asset maintenance issues and were
       therefore re-categorised under the SOAF process. We have also taken this into
       account as part of our updated assessment which is summarised in Table 4.1 below.

4.39 Based on Thames Water's updated information, 45 storm overflows associated with
       Thames Water's WWTW were found to have spilled more than 60 times due to asset
       maintenance issues, including infiltration.

4.40 In terms of our penalty assessment, and the treatment of sites under SOAF, we have
       considered high spilling sites where infiltration or other asset maintenance issues
       were identified as the reason for the spills separately. Our assessment shows that 28 of
       the 45 storm overflow sites were found to have spilled due to asset maintenance issues
       (excluding infiltration). At 5 of these sites, Thames Water appears to have taken
       adequate steps to resolve the issues within the calendar year so that in the following
       year, 2022, there were fewer than 20 spills recorded at those sites. We consider these
       sites were in breach of Regulation 4(4) UWWTR in the past, but as the underlying
       issues were addressed, they were no longer in breach. For the remaining 23 sites,
       however, all recorded 20 or more spills in 2022, indicating that Thames Water failed to
       resolve the cause of the issue within a reasonable timeframe. Therefore, these sites
       have been included in our penalty assessment.

4.41   Of the 45 sites where asset maintenance was identified as the reason the site recorded
       more than 60 spills in 2021, Thames Water told us that at 17 sites infiltration was the
       underlying cause. As noted earlier, while we recognise that under SOAF it is
       acknowledged that it may take longer to address issues at those sites, we nevertheless

239
   SOAF, page 6 (water.org.uk).
240
   Thames Water has Infiltration Reduction Plans (IRPs) or Groundwater Impacted System
Management Plans (GISMPs) for sites which spilled more than 60 times due to infiltration. According
to Thames Water these have been developed in conjunction with the Environment Agency; are
reviewed and updated annually and published in its website.

                                                138
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       expect to see evidence that the company has developed plans to identify and resolve
       the causes of infiltration at these sites as well as evidence that the plans are being
       progressed and the company is actively taking steps to ensure that its assets provide
       sufficient performance.

4.42   Thames Water has developed Infiltration Reduction Plans (IRPs) or Groundwater
       Impacted System Management Plans (GISMPs) for those sites which spilled more than
       60 times due to infiltration in 2021. However, having reviewed these plans 241, it is clear
       that at eight sites (which continued to record 20 or more spills in 2022), while Thames
       Water has various investigations ongoing, there is no evidence of any remedial work
       being undertaken to address the cause of the infiltration. These sites have, therefore,
       also been taken into account as part of our assessment of the appropriate level of
       penalty in this case.

Sites spilling frequently due to hydraulic capacity issues

4.43   We have also revisited our assessment of the number of Thames Water's sites which
       were high spilling due to hydraulic capacity issues to reflect the fact that in the
       information it provided, a number of sites which had originally been thought to have
       been high spilling due to infiltration were subsequently found to be due to hydraulic
       capacity issues. In addition, we have also taken account of more recent information on
       Thames Water's plans to address compliance issues across its wastewater treatment
       network.

4.44   Under SOAF, where the root cause of high spills is identified as being hydraulic
       capacity, further investigation is required to assess whether a BTKNEEC solution
       exists. In our assessment, a failure to carry out a further investigation in a timely
       manner is considered to be a breach. Where an investigation has been completed and
       no BTKNEEC solution was identified or where the investigation is still ongoing (and
       therefore it is not yet clear that a BTKNEEC solution actually exists), the site is
       excluded from both the breach finding and from our penalty assessment. Where a site
       has been investigated under the SOAF and a BTKNEEC solution has been identified, the
       site is considered to be in breach until that solution has been implemented. However,
       we have not included the site in our penalty assessment if we have evidence to
       indicate that the work to implement the BTKNEEC solution is being or will be carried
       out in a timely manner.


241
   In terms of our assessment of Thames Water's IRPs and GISMPs and whether Thames Water has
taken sufficient action to warrant excluding the site from our penalty calculation, we have adopted the
following approach:
• If the only remedial work undertaken by Thames Water has been to investigate the sewer network
     to identify potential sources of infiltration (e.g. via CCTV surveys) and no further action has been
     taken, those sites have been included as part of our penalty calculation.
• If there is evidence that the company has taken remedial action, such as sealing manholes or
     lining sewers, those sites have not be included in our penalty calculation.

                                                  139
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

   4.45    In Thames Water's case, the information contained in its annual EDM returns to the
           Environment Agency and in the separate information it provided on the sites that had
           been triggered for investigation under SOAF 242 indicated that it was investigating the
           causes of high spills at its high spilling sites. The information also showed that in
           many instances, it had also identified and costed solutions to address these causes
           (which in many instances were found to be due to FFT or storm tank capacity issues).
           However, given the further slippage that has been seen in relation to the delivery of
           Thames Water's WAAP investment programme and the fact that many of the steps to
           address issues across WWTW and network which had originally been scheduled to take
           place during AMP7 (under Thames Water's Compliance First plan and now its WAAP)
           have been deferred to AMP8 means that we do not have sufficient evidence to
           demonstrate that Thames Water will implement the BTKNEEC solutions it has already
           identified within a reasonable timescale.

   4.46    As a result, we now consider that 19 sites which were high spilling due to hydraulic
           capacity issues should be included in our penalty calculations under Regulation 4(4).
           Our revised assessment is summarised in Table 4.1 below.

           Table 4.1: Number of Thames Water's frequently spilling storm overflows
           associated with its WWTW and outcome of SOAF assessments undertaken
           (where relevant)

                                                                                    2021 data

                                                                             Storm overflows at
                                                                             WWTW - Reg 4(4)

          Number of SOs 243                                                  235

          Number of SOs with spill information in 2021                       100%



242 Thames Water provided information for 169 sites which had been triggered for SOAF investigations over

   the over the period from 2018 to 2022. This is shown in Appendix A4. The list includes eight sites which
   were triggered in 2018, 49 sites in 2019, 79 sites in 2020, 35 sites in 2021 and 2 sites which were
   triggered in 2022. 58 of the 169 sites had proceeded to Stage 3 of the SOAF and, according to Thames
   Water, have been allocated within a remediation programme and three sites are pending completion of
   Stage 2 ecological surveys. In the information provided by Thames Water 160 of the 169 sites listed are
   marked as "SOAF completed (all stages as required". In terms of remediation programmes, of the 58
   sites which had progressed to Stage 3; 17 were included as part of WINEP AMP8; 16 in WAAP and 17 as
   part of both. Two sites were still in the "optioneering" phase and six of the 58 sites had not been
   allocated to either WINEP or WAAP. In addition, Thames Water also indicated the preliminary SODRP
   scheduling for all 169 sites investigated under SOAF. This includes 8 sites in AMP7 (Tideway Tunnel); 58
   in AMP8; 34 in AMP9; 31 in AMP10; 33 in AMP11, four in AMP12 and one SO site (Chilton Foliat) which
   has been marked as "permit surrendered".
   243
       In its 2022 EDM return to the Environment Agency, Thames Water listed 537 storm overflows on its
   network and 240 at its WWTW i.e. a total of 777 storm overflows. These newly listed storm overflows did
   not have EDM's in place and many were also unpermitted. As a result, Thames Water reported that the
   proportion of its storm overflows with EDM commissioned fell from 100% in 2021 to just 61.8% in 2022.

                                                     140
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

                                                                                      2021 data

                                                                             Storm overflows at
                                                                             WWTW - Reg 4(4)

       Number of SOs with 20+ spills in 2021                                 171 (72.7%)

       Number of SOs with >60 spills in 2021                                 70 (29.8%)

       SOAF Stage 1 Assessment – sites spilling >60 times

       Sites with >60 spills which had a Stage 1 root cause assessment       70 (100%)
       (or equivalent) completed in 2021

       Operational and maintenance issues – sites spilling >60 times

       Stage 1 assessment found that high spills over SOAF threshold         45 244
       (>60 spills) attributable to operational and maintenance issues.

       Operational and maintenance – excluding infiltration and re-categorised sites

       Stage 1 assessment found that high spills over SOAF threshold         28
       (>60 spills) attributable to operational and maintenance issues
       – excluding sites where spills due to infiltration and re-
       categorised as hydraulic capacity

       Has undertaken a Stage 1 assessment and found that high spills        5
       over SOAF threshold (>60 spills) are attributable to operational
       and maintenance issues only, but the company HAS taken steps
       to reduce this such that the site is spilling less than 20 times in
       2022.

       Has undertaken a Stage 1 assessment and found that high spills        23
       are attributable to operational and maintenance issues only but
       the company HAS NOT taken adequate steps such that the site
       spilled 20 or more times in 2022.

       Operational and maintenance – infiltration

       Stage 1 assessment found that high spills over SOAF threshold         17 245
       (>60 spills) attributable to infiltration

       Evidence that the company HAS taken steps to address                  9 246
       infiltration at the site.

244
    Thames Water told us that of the original 48 sites which were categorised as spilling due to asset
maintenance issue, 3 were subsequently found to be due to hydraulic capacity issue and 1 due to non-
infiltration (asset configuration) issues.
245 Thames Water originally reported 21 sites which spilled >60 times in 2021 due to infiltration but this

was revised down to 17 as three sites were subsequently found to have spilled due to hydraulic
capacity (Bledington STW, Gerrards Cross STW and Selborne STW) and one (Grendon Underwood STW)
due to other asset maintenance reasons.
246
    Berkhampstead, Chesham, Cirencester, Clanfield, East Shefford, Fairford, Hampstead Norreys and
Princes Risborough WWTW.

                                                   141
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

                                                                                   2021 data

                                                                          Storm overflows at
                                                                          WWTW - Reg 4(4)



       Evidence that the company HAS NOT taken steps to address           8 247
       infiltration at the site.

       Hydraulic capacity issues – sites spilling >60 times

       Stage 1 assessment found high spills over SOAF threshold (of       25 248
       >60 spills per year) were attributable to hydraulic capacity
       issues.

       SOAF investigation completed for sites with hydraulic capacity     19 249
       issues and BTKNEEC solution found but not implemented within
       a reasonable timescale.

       SOAF investigation completed for sites with hydraulic capacity     0
       issues and no BTKNEEC solution found. 250

       Has a SOAF investigation underway (or scheduled) and is            6 251
       therefore in the process of establishing whether there is a
       BTKNEEC solution

       Does not have SOAF investigation in train (or scheduled) in        0
       relation to the site with hydraulic capacity issues.



4.47   In summary, therefore, while the frequency with which so many of the storm overflows
       associated with Thames Water's WWTW have spilled points to a serious contravention
       of the company's obligations under Regulation 4(4) UWWTR, we have also taken
       account of the steps that the company has been taking to identify and address the
       causes of high spills under the SOAF framework as part of our penalty assessment. The
       information provided by Thames Water does appear to demonstrate that the company
       has been engaging with the SOAF process and where the reason for high spills at a
       site has been found to be due to hydraulic capacity issues, it followed up by
       considering the potential environmental impact of the high spills from those sites, to

247
    Bentley, Bucklebury, Burghfield, Kingsclere, Marsh Gibbon, Milton Under Wychwood, Silchester and
Washwater WWTW.
248
    This includes the 3 sites which Thames Water re-categorised as spilling due to hydraulic capacity
reasons rather than infiltration.
249
    Abbess Roding, Andoversford, Bledington, Bloxham, Boddington, Burstow, Cropredy, Cuddington,
Eydon, Faringdon, Gerrards Cross, Hanwell, Holmwood, Selborne, Takeley, Theydon Bois, Waddesdon,
Wheatley and Windsor WWTW.
250
    This is based on the information provided by Thames Water in its SOAF Summary spreadsheet and
which shows its assessments of sites triggered for SOAF investigations over the period from 2018 to
2022. None of the sites which progressed to Stage 3 (including sites triggered in 2021) were identified
as NOT having a solution.
251
    Appleton, Codicote, Farnborough, Riverside (Dagenham), Shutford and Whitwell WWTW.

                                                  142
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       identify solutions to remediate issues at those sites and, as appropriate, to include the
       sites as part of its improvement schemes. However, as noted above, where it has been
       identified that a BTKNEEC solution does exist to address the reasons for the high spills
       at a site, that site is considered to be non-compliant with Regulation 4(4) until that
       solution is implemented.

4.48   Similarly, the fact that over 60% of sites which spilled more than 60 times were due to
       operational and asset maintenance issues in itself points to a contravention of the
       company's obligations under Regulation 4(4) UWWTR and the company's failure to take
       appropriate action to mitigate or remedy the issues at so many of these sites (as it is
       required to do under SOAF) indicates a significant ongoing breach of these
       obligations.

4.49   On the basis of the evidence we have gathered during our investigation, therefore, we
       have concluded that Thames Water has contravened and is continuing to contravene
       the requirements of Regulation 4(4) UWWTR by failing to ensure that its WWTW are
       designed, constructed, operated and maintained to ensure sufficient performance
       under all normal local climatic conditions.

4.50   Our analysis of storm overflow EDM data shows that over 70% (171) of Thames Water's
       WWTW have storm overflows associated with them that have spilled on such a regular
       basis that these spills could not be considered to be exceptional. At its 70 highest
       spilling sites, which have been investigated under SOAF, it failed to address asset
       performance issues at 31 of these overflows. Where it identified potential solutions to
       address hydraulic capacity problems at these sites, it has failed to implement them in
       a timely manner at 19 of the storm overflows.

Regulation 4(2) and Schedule 2: Failure to limit discharges from storm
overflows on its network (collecting systems)

4.51   While our investigation has focused primarily on compliance at Thames Water's
       WWTW, it is also clear from the evidence that we have obtained that there are issues in
       relation to the design, construction and maintenance of the systems which are used to
       collect and bring wastewater to its WWTW.

4.52   As set out in in Section 3 the number of recorded spills at storm overflows at Thames
       Water's sewage pumping stations and on its network were significantly lower than
       those recorded at storm overflows associated with its WWTW. Nevertheless, in 2021,
       30% of those storm overflows (69) recorded 20 or more spills (reducing to 16% and
       24% in 2022 and 2023 respectively). In line with the approach we have set out above
       on our assessment of spills at the storm overflows associated with Thames Water's
       WWTW, these storm overflows are considered to be operating in breach of Regulation
       4(2) UWWTR unless there is evidence that no environmental harm occurred as a result



                                                143
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       of the spills and that, having investigated, Thames Water has determined that a
       BTKNEEC solution to address the cause of the spills is not available.

4.53   However, as explained in Section 3, we consider that the true scale of spills from storm
       overflows on Thames Water's network is likely to be much higher than that currently
       reported. This is because in its annual return to the Environment Agency for 2022, it
       listed 312 additional storm overflows which it had not previously identified and which
       did not have monitors in place. The vast majority of these storm overflows (307) were
       identified as being on its network and Thames Water also revealed that 196 252 of these
       overflows did not have permits in place.

4.54   In terms of our detailed findings, we note again that Thames Water did not attribute
       the relevant spills to exceptional circumstances. In terms of our penalty assessment,
       for the 14 storm overflows which spilled more than 60 times and were triggered for
       investigation under SOAF, all 14 had SOAF Stage 1 assessment completed. The root
       cause of spills for three 253 of those was attributed to asset maintenance issues and at
       two of the three sites, the underlying cause was identified as infiltration.

4.55   In line with the approach we set out above for our assessment of storm overflows
       associated with Thames Water's WWTW we have considered whether Thames Water
       has acted to resolve the reasons for the high spills as it is required to do under SOAF.
       Our assessment is summarised below:

       a)    For the site 254 where the asset maintenance (excluding infiltration) was the
             reason for the high spills, Thames Water does not appear to have taken adequate
             steps to resolve the issues as in the following year, 2022, the site continued to
             record 20 or more spills. We consider this constitutes a past and ongoing breach
             of Regulation 4(2) UWWTR.

       b)    For the two sites where infiltration was the reason for the high spills 255, while
             Thames Water does have IRPs/GISMPs in place, at one of those sites 256 there is
             no evidence of any remedial work being undertaken to address the cause of the




252
    Thames Water informed us in January 2024 that whilst accurate at the time of the annual return to
the Environment Agency, following the implementation of its unpermitted CSO programme, this
number had been now been reduced as part of its uCSO programme.
253
    Thames Water had originally reported that at four storm overflows the reason for the spills was asset
maintenance. In further information it provided to Ofwat, it told us that it had subsequently
determined that at one of these sites (Wardington Pumping Station), the reason for the spills was
actually a hydraulic capacity issue.
254
    Falcon Brook Pumping Station, London.
255
    East Garston SPS (Part of East Shefford STW) and Opposite St Stephens Hall SPS (Silchester
GISMP).
256
    Opposite St Stephens Hall SPS (Silchester GISMP).

                                                  144
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

             infiltration. We consider this constitutes a past and ongoing breach of Regulation
             4(2) UWWTR.

4.56   Hydraulic capacity was identified as the root cause of spills at 11 sites. At five of these
       sites, the information provided by Thames Water on the sites it has investigated under
       SOAF 257 shows that investigations have been completed an a solution identified and
       costed. Those sites remain in breach of Regulation 4(2) until that solution is
       implemented. At six sites, SOAF investigation were still underway (or scheduled) and ,
       therefore, the company was still in the process of establishing whether there is a
       BTKNEEC compatible solution.

       Table 4.2: Number of Thames Water's frequently spilling storm overflows on its
       network and outcome of SOAF assessments undertaken (where relevant)

                                                                                   2021 data

                                                                           Storm overflows on the
                                                                           network - Reg 4(2)

        Number of SOs 258                                                  230

        Number of SOs with spill information in 2021                       100%

        Number of SOs with 20+ spills in 2021                              69 (30.0%)

        Number of SOs with >60 spills in 2021                              14 (6.1%)


        Sites with >60 spills which had a Stage 1 root cause assessment    14 (100%)
        (or equivalent) completed in 2021

        Operational and asset maintenance issues – sites spilling >60 times

        Stage 1 assessment found that high spills over SOAF threshold      3 259
        (of >60 spills per year) were attributable to operational and
        maintenance issues

        Operational and asset maintenance – excluding infiltration and re-categorised sites

        Stage 1 assessment found that high spills over SOAF threshold      1
        (>60 spills) attributable to operational and asset maintenance


257 This is based on the information provided by Thames Water in April 2024 in its 'SOAF Summary

spreadsheet' and which shows its assessments of sites triggered for SOAF investigations over the
period from 2018 to 2022.
258
    In its 2022 EDM return to the Environment Agency, Thames Water listed 537 SOs on its network and
240 at its WWTW i.e. a total of 777 SOs. These newly listed SOs did not have EDM's in place and many
were also unpermitted. As a result, Thames Water reported that the proportion of its SOs with EDM
commissioned fell from 100% in 2021 to just 61.8% in 2022.
259
    At one high spilling network storm overflow, Thames Water found the reason for the high spill was
not infiltration as initially thought, but a hydraulic capacity issue.

                                                 145
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

                                                                                     2021 data

                                                                            Storm overflows on the
                                                                            network - Reg 4(2)

        issues – excluding sites where spills due to infiltration and re-
        categorised as hydraulic capacity

        Has undertaken a Stage 1 assessment and found that high spills      0
        over SOAF threshold (>60 spills) are attributable to operational
        and asset maintenance issues only, but the company HAS taken
        steps to reduce this such that the site is spilling less than 20
        times in 2022.

        Has undertaken a Stage 1 assessment and found that high spills      1
        are attributable to operational and asset maintenance issues
        only but the company HAS NOT taken adequate steps such that
        the site spilled 20 or more times in 2022.

        Operational and asset maintenance – infiltration

        Stage 1 assessment found that high spills over SOAF threshold       2
        (>60 spills) attributable to infiltration

        Evidence that the company HAS taken steps to address                1
        infiltration at the site.

        Evidence that the company HAS NOT taken steps to address            1
        infiltration at the site.

        Hydraulic capacity issues – sites spilling >60 times

        Stage 1 assessment found high spills over SOAF threshold (of        11 260
        >60 spills per year) were attributable to hydraulic capacity
        issues

        SOAF investigation completed for sites with hydraulic capacity      5 261
        issues and BTKNEEC solution found but not implemented within
        a reasonable timescale.

        SOAF investigation completed for sites with hydraulic capacity      0
        issues and no BTKNEEC solution found. 262




260
    Thames Water told us that one network SO which was originally categorised as being due to
infiltration was subsequently found to be due to hydraulic capacity issues.
261 Storm overflows at Beech Hall Crescent, Longbridge Road, Snakes Lane, South Park and Wardington

SPS.
262
    This is based on the information provided by Thames Water in April 2024 in its SOAF Summary
spreadsheet and which shows its assessments of sites triggered for SOAF investigations over the
period from 2018 to 2022. None of the sites which progressed to Stage 3 (including sites “triggered” in
2021) were identified as NOT having a solution.

                                                  146
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

                                                                                   2021 data

                                                                           Storm overflows on the
                                                                           network - Reg 4(2)

        Has a SOAF investigation underway (or scheduled) and is            6 263
        therefore in the process of establishing whether there is a
        BTKNEEC solution

        Does not have SOAF investigation in train (or scheduled) in        0
        relation to the site with hydraulic capacity issues.



4.57   While the number of storm overflows on Thames Water's network that breached, and
       continued to breach, Regulation 4(2) is relatively small based on our assessment of the
       information contained in the Environment Agency's annual EDM reports and the
       additional information provided by Thames Water on sites which have been
       investigated as part of the SOAF process, in our view, Thames Water's breach is far
       more significant than this.

4.58   As noted previously, in its 2022 return to the Environment Agency Thames Water
       included 307 storm overflows on its network which it had not previously been
       identified. These overflows were unmonitored and in many cases were also
       unpermitted. As we explained in Section 2, a prevalence of unpermitted and
       unmonitored storm overflows is indicative of a company's failure to ensure that its
       network has not been constructed or maintained in accordance with the BTKNEEC
       standard to ensure limitation of pollution from storm overflows. In this case, the
       number of such storm overflows is significant (that is, 307 or 57.2% of all the storm
       overflows that Thames Water had identified on its network) and we consider that the
       company's conduct amounted to a breach of Regulation 4(2) and Schedule 2 UWWTR.
       While Thames Water is in the process of investigating its unpermitted overflows as
       part of its uCSO programme 264, we consider that absent evidence that these overflows


263
   Daintry Road CSO, Streatham & Balham SO, Brixton Storm Relief, Deptford Storm Relief, Bell Lane
Creek and Pauls Pier CSO.
264 In its January 2024 response to our provisional findings Thames Water told us that, following the

introduction of an unpermitted CSO (uCSO) programme in 2022, which is being undertaken with
Environment Agency engagement, the number of unpermitted storm overflows had been reduced from
196 to 155.
In further information provided in March 2024 it explained that as part of it uCSO programme, for each
site identified, it undertakes an investigation to understand if the CSO is present and active (e.g. to
asses whether the storm overflow is genuine as opposed to another drainage asset such as a surface
water outfall). Where a CSO is confirmed, it installs an EDM monitor and completes environmental river
surveys and modelling. Not all sites identified lead to an additional permitted CSO – some potentially
unpermitted CSOs have dropped off the list during this process when:
• Thames Water has established that the report is false (i.e. there is no CSO in that location)
• The CSO is no longer active or does not meet the criteria for permitting, and can be sealed
• It has been able to remove the need for a CSO.


                                                 147
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       did not result in environmental harm or it would be disproportionately costly to remedy
       the issues identified, that many of these sites are continuing to breach Regulation 4(2)
       UWWTR.

Thames Water's failure to act to ensure its wastewater assets are
designed, constructed, operated and maintained to meet its UWWTR
obligations

4.59   As already explained above, Regulation 4 UWWTR not only sets out the requirements
       for the design, construction, maintenance and operation of wastewater assets (with
       the underlying goal of preventing environmental harm), but also requires the
       companies to ensure that its assets are UWWTR compliant.

4.60   The scale and duration of potential non-compliance that our investigation has found
       at so many of Thames Water's sites, and across so many aspects of its operation and
       management of its wastewater infrastructure, is extremely concerning.

4.61   This is particularly so given the fact that the company was already aware of the
       consequences of failing to operate its assets to meet environmental permit conditions
       and the impact that these failings can have on the environment. As noted in Section 3,
       in 2017 Thames Water was fined £20.3 million by the Environment Agency as a result of
       serious and prolonged pollution incidents on the river Thames due to unpermitted
       discharges of untreated sewage from its WWTW. The company's failure to manage its
       FFT compliance was a key aspect of those prosecutions.

4.62   Following those prosecutions, and engagement with the Environment Agency, in 2017
       Thames Water undertook an estate-wide assessment of its compliance risks. While
       this focused primarily on FFT compliance, it also considered a number of other metrics
       (which are relevant indicators of UWWTR compliance) to reflect asset health, as well
       as factors such as the sensitivity of the watercourse that the WWTW was discharging
       into. While this assessment had rated more than 100 sites as red or amber in terms of
       potential compliance risks, Thames Water chose to prioritise action at fewer than 30 of
       these under its G2G programme. This also meant that the bulk of its WWTW, which it
       knew had compliance risks or which were at heightened risk of non-compliance, were
       not prioritised for resolution and so, were not addressed with any urgency.



However, if it does locate a storm or emergency overflow that is in use, Thames Water seeks a permit
from the Environment Agency.
Thames Water told us that it was targeting the end November 2024 to have all existing known
unconsented CSOs either permitted or sealed.
In a further update provided as part of its September 2024 response to the consultation on our
proposed findings, it told us that at that point, as a result of its investigations, the number of
unconsented CSOs had further reduced to 82, with 26 of these having had permit applications
submitted to the Environment Agency, with the remainder still under investigation.


                                                 148
              Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                  on Thames Water

      4.63    Thames Water claimed that it had always intended G2G to be a multi-AMP investment
              programme so that compliance risks at other WWTW would have been prioritised in
              subsequent investment rounds (or that sites may have obtained funding from other
              capital investment programmes which were designed to fund planned or reactive
              works at treatment sites). However, based on the evidence we have seen, it is clear
              that many of the sites which had a compliance risk rating of red or amber under the
              original 2017 G2G assessment are sites which were also rated red or amber when the
              company repeated its G2G risk assessment in 2020 and are also sites which are now
              amongst Thames Water's 157 sites of concern.

      4.64    Even for those sites which Thames Water had identified as of the highest priority
              because of their compliance risk and even where investment needs were clearly
              identified, the evidence we have seen indicates that measures to address compliance
              risk were not progressed with sufficient urgency and compliance issues at many of
              these sites are yet to be resolved.

      4.65    As we have set out in this document, our main concern is that, despite its awareness
              of long-standing compliance risks across its WWTW, Thames Water failed to address
              these risks with sufficient urgency. We have not seen evidence to indicate that it had
              sought additional funding (either via the price control or via its own shareholders) to
              enable it to resolve known compliance risks more rapidly. Indeed, even when other
              sources of funding became available under the Green Recovery programme 265 or via
              the Accelerated Infrastructure Delivery Project, Thames Water did not seek to secure
              additional investment to improve its WWTW assets or the performance of its storm
              overflows.

      4.66    Thames Water has acknowledged that for those sites which it had identified as being
              of the highest priority under the G2G programme, and for which funding had been
              obtained, progress was slow in the early stages of AMP7. This, it claims, was due in
              part to the impact that Covid 19 had had on the company – an impact that was outside
              its control. We accept that Covid 19 did impact on Thames Water's business, as it did
              on other water companies. However, it was not the only factor cited by the company as
              a reason for the delay in the early stages of AMP7. The other factor was the
              introduction of a new capital delivery model and this was a factor that the company
              should have anticipated, planned for and managed to ensure that it did not have a
              negative impact on delivery.

      4.67    Furthermore, while we recognise that Thames Water is now taking steps to address its
              compliance risks across its WWTW estate and network and is proposing significant

265
      Thames Water did obtain funding via the Green Recovery programme to support the roll-out of smart
       water meters. It failed to obtain any funding under the Accelerated Infrastructure Delivery Project (due
       to lack of sufficient detail) and does not appear to have requested any funding for projects to address
       discharges from storm overflows (its proposals related primarily to water resilience).


                                                         149
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       investment during AMP8 under its WAAP, we also note that previously it had told us
       that (as part of what was originally its Compliance First plan) its plans to address
       issues at a significant number of its sites of concern would be delivered in AMP7. This
       means, therefore, a further delay in the company's progress to resolve its compliance
       issues. It also means that compliance issues at many of its sites will have continued,
       unresolved, for a very extended period of time.

4.68   In light of the above, we consider that Thames Water failed to adequately ensure that
       its assets were compliant with the UWWTR, which itself amounts to a breach of
       Regulation 4(4) UWWTR and Regulation 4(2) UWWTR.

Section 94 WIA91: Failure to effectually deal with the contents of sewers

4.69   As explained in Section 2, each breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR itself constitutes a
       breach of section 94 WIA91. However, in addition to the UWWTR breaches identified
       above, we have also considered whether the company has breached its general duties
       under section 94 WIA91. The magnitude and extent of Thames Water’s contraventions
       of the UWWTR is significant, widespread and has persisted over an extended period.
       Accordingly, we are satisfied that this indicates a systemic failure to make appropriate
       provision for effectually dealing with the contents of sewers and, therefore,
       constitutes a breach of the general duty under section 94 WIA91.

4.70   In coming to this conclusion, we have relied on the following conduct:

        •   Thames Water identified 157 potentially FFT non-compliant sites. This equates to
            almost two thirds of all its sites which have FFT permit conditions or TDCs. Of
            these sites, Thames Water’s analysis demonstrated that virtually all of these
            potentially non-compliant sites have multiple root causes for failing FFT
            performance, including data quality issues, poor flow control and management,
            and lack of treatment resilience such as inadequate maintenance or the capacity
            of assets no longer being sufficient to meet local demand. In addition, Thames
            Water identified issues with storm tank capacity at more than a third of its sites
            of concern as well as an increasing number of sites which had failed, or were at
            risk of failing, to meet DWF permit conditions. In our assessment, this is
            representative of a widespread and persistent failure to meet Thames Water’s
            obligations under Regulation 4(4) UWWTR.

        •   The magnitude and duration of spills from storm overflows associated with its
            WWTW, the majority of which appear to be due to operational and asset
            maintenance issues which should be within Thames Water's control, also point to
            a breach of the company's obligations under Regulation 4(4) UWWTR. In 2021, for
            example, over 70% of storm overflows associated with its WWTW had spilled 20 or
            more times. While recognising the steps that Thames Water has taken at its high
            spilling sites under the SOAF process, our overall assessment is that Thames


                                                150
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

            Water has failed to limit discharges from its storm overflows and this failure has
            been widespread and persistent.

        •   The identification of over 300 storm overflows on its collecting systems, which
            have been unmonitored and, in many cases, also unpermitted, indicates a large-
            scale failure by the company to ensure its wastewater assets are managed,
            operated and maintained to meet its regulatory obligations and, in our
            assessment, constitutes a failure of its obligations under Regulation 4(2) UWWTR.

        •   Thames Water continued to operate with the knowledge that failing to prioritise
            investment at a significant number of WWTW with known compliance risks would
            mean that these WWTW would continue to be non-compliant or at greater risk of
            non-compliance and did not take sufficient action. As highlighted above, many of
            the sites with a red or amber rating under the original 2017 G2G assessment are
            sites which were also rated red or amber when the company repeated its G2G risk
            assessment in 2020 and are also sites which are amongst Thames Water's 157
            sites of concern. These issues were clearly widespread, and the evidence
            available to us indicates that Thames Water persistently failed to ensure that its
            WWTW met its UWWTR obligations and its obligations under section 94 WIA91.

4.71   In summary, therefore, based on the evidence obtained during the course of our
       investigation, and for the reasons outlined above, we have concluded that, from at
       least 2017, Thames Water failed, and continues to fail, to comply with its obligations
       under Regulation 4(4), Regulations 4(2) and Schedule 2 of the UWWTR and its duties
       under section 94 WIA91.

4.72   While Thames Water has acknowledged that, historically, its processes and
       governance arrangement could have been better, to date, it has not acknowledged
       that the scale and duration of compliance issues across its WWTW estate (and the
       likely impact that this non-compliance has had on the environment) constitutes a
       breach of its duties under the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91.

4.73   We have considered Thames Water's response to our draft decision and have taken
       account of the new information and evidence it has provided. However, in reaching
       our findings in relation to the extent to which the company has complied, and
       continues to comply with, its obligations under section 94, we have based our
       assessment on the magnitude and extent of Thames Water's potential non-compliance
       in relation to FFT permit conditions; the evidence on the increasing number of its sites
       which have failed (or are at risk of failing) to meet DWF permit conditions as well as
       the significant number of its sites that are spilling to the environment frequently. In
       our view, this evidence points to a systemic failure to make appropriate provision for
       effectually dealing with the contents of sewers and constitutes an ongoing breach of
       section 94 WIA91.



                                                151
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

4.74   We also consider that, despite Thames Water's repeated claims to the contrary, it has
       not behaved in a manner we would expect of a reasonable company. In our view, it
       should have been aware of, and alert to, the risk that a failure to meet FFT and other
       permit conditions and its spills and pollution incidents performance might mean for
       the company's wider regulatory obligations. Not only had the company been the
       subject of previous prosecutions due to the environmental impact of the failure of a
       number of its sites to treat sufficient FFT, but it was also aware of, and had considered,
       the implications for the company as a result of Ofwat's decision in the Southern Water
       enforcement case. In doing so, it had identified a number of risks which it failed to
       address with sufficient urgency. As a result of those failures, and despite the fact that
       companies were funded to meet existing environmental permits under the price
       control, Thames Water is now in a position where almost two thirds of all its sites with
       FFT permit conditions and TDCs are potentially non-compliant. This means that sites
       may have been discharging untreated wastewater when they should not be doing so
       and, in circumstances which were not due to exceptional or unforeseeable events.

Findings in respect of Condition P: Failure to have adequate financial
and management resources and systems of planning and internal
control to enable it to secure the carrying out of its regulated activities

4.75   The breaches we have identified above demonstrate that Thames Water has failed to
       properly carry out its regulated activities, in particular, to design, construct, operate
       and maintain its WWTW and the collecting systems that supply its WWTW in order to
       minimise harm to the environment. We consider that this is due to the failures in, and
       the inadequacy of, the financial and management resources and systems of planning
       and internal controls that it put towards these regulated activities, contrary to the
       company's obligations under Condition P of its Licence (as explained in Section 2).

4.76   Condition P means that Thames Water needs to have understood its legal and
       regulatory obligations and have put in place appropriate processes and controls to
       ensure that it was able to operate its wastewater assets in a manner that complied
       with those obligations.

4.77   It should also have in place systems to ensure that any non-compliance (and the risk
       of non-compliance) is escalated within the company and that prompt, timely
       investigations are carried out and remedial action taken to secure compliance. It
       should also have internal controls in place that follow-up these interventions to ensure
       that compliance is achieved in a timely and effective manner.

4.78   Thames Water should have in place appropriate processes to ensure that its
       operational staff have the necessary information to identify potential issues and that it
       has the right culture and processes in place to ensure that remediation of these issues
       is prioritised. This includes making sure that it has appropriate checks and balances
       to assure monitoring and reporting information is accurate. Thames Water should also

                                                152
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       have in place processes to ensure that its Executive and Board request and receive the
       information they need to monitor the company's compliance with its environmental
       obligations and that sufficient time and resource are put to engaging meaningfully
       with this.

4.79   Based on the evidence we have seen, we have concluded that Thames Water has had:

       •   inadequate systems of planning and internal controls and management resources
           in place to enable it to understand and effectively manage its compliance with its
           environmental obligations (both with respect to its environmental permits and the
           UWWTR / section 94) at its WTTW and on its network;

       •   inadequate financial and management resources in place to adequately ensure
           that its WWTW and its network continue to be designed, constructed, operated and
           maintained to meet local conditions, and that solutions to non-compliance are
           identified and addressed in a timely way; and

       •   inadequate processes of assurance, controls and governance to ensure and
           challenge the completeness and integrity of WWTW and network asset compliance
           reporting, including at Board and Executive level.

4.80   As set out in Section 3, during the course of our investigation, Thames Water identified
       more and more sites which were potentially non-compliant with their FFT permit
       conditions. This was despite the previous compliance risk assessments that the
       company had undertaken under its G2G programme and despite the robust processes
       and procedures that it claimed to have had in place to identify and manage its
       compliance risks.

4.81   When asked to provide an explanation or root cause of what had gone wrong to result
       in the company ending up with potential FFT non-compliance on the scale it has now
       identified, Thames Water repeatedly cited a lack of accurate data. It told us that this
       will be resolved by the roll-out of U_MON3 and U_MON4 monitors and this will improve
       its ability to manage compliance across its WWTW estate.

4.82   However, the duties and obligations imposed on companies by the UWWTR and section
       94 WIA91 have existed for many years and the onus is, and always has been, on the
       company to ensure its compliance with these obligations. How it does that, and the
       processes and procedures it has in place, to assure itself that it is complying is up to
       the company. The absence of data from U_MON3 and U_MON4 monitors does not
       explain (or excuse) how, and why, Thames Water has ended up with so many
       potentially non-compliant sites. Rather, the scale of the potential non-compliance
       now identified points to a failure of the company's systems of planning and control to
       enable it to assure itself of its actual compliance position and a failure by the company



                                                153
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       to be more diligent in its enquiries as to what was actually going on across its WWTW
       and network estate.

4.83   It is obvious from the evidence we have seen that Thames Water did not have a clear
       view or understanding about the state of its wastewater assets; about how those
       assets were actually performing; and, therefore, about whether its WWTW and the
       networks supplying those sites were being managed and operated in a manner which
       was compliant, not only with environmental permits, but also with the company's
       overarching obligations under the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91. These are not the
       actions of a reasonable company.

4.84   Furthermore, while Thames Water has cited a lack of data from flow monitors as a key
       factor in the potential non-compliance it has now identified, it is also evident that its
       inability to access data which could have helped it to have a better understanding of
       the performance of its wastewater assets was due, at least in part, to failings of its own
       systems of management and control. As set out previously, the company began
       installing EDMs in AMP6, but in Autumn 2018 it discovered problems with the quality of
       the data being collected from these monitors. The ultimate root cause of these
       problems was found to be a new capital delivery model the company introduced in
       AMP6 which, according to Thames Water, had led to a lack of assurance,
       communication and governance of installation requirements. While Thames Water has
       informed us that it has now resolved these issues and has introduced a range of new
       processes and procedures to avoid problems arising again, these issues did have a
       significant impact on the company's ability to access reliable data on spills to the
       environment and arose from its own inadequate management of its supplier for this
       work. This in turn impacted on the ability of the company to use this data, in
       conjunction with the data from its TDV/FE monitors, to obtain a more accurate picture
       of what was happening at its sites in terms of flow compliance.

4.85   There were also other sources of information and other indicators that should have
       alerted Thames Water that things might be going wrong and that should have
       prompted further, more diligent enquiry by its management into the company's true
       compliance position. This included, for example, evidence about the number of
       serious pollution incidents being recorded by the company; evidence that an
       increasing number of its WWTW were operating with little or no headroom and at risk
       of failing to meet DWF permit limits and what this might also mean in terms of FFT
       permit compliance and the increased risk of spills of untreated wastewater to the
       environment; and evidence from the mounting concerns being raised, and analysis
       being provided, by local action groups and citizen scientists about the scale and
       duration of discharges of untreated wastewater from its WWTW and the impact that
       these discharges were having on local watercourses .




                                                154
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

4.86   It is also clear that, despite Thames Water's claims about the robustness of its
       processes and procedures, a number of its own internal reviews 266 paint a different
       picture and suggest that the company was aware of, at least some of, the
       shortcomings in its systems and controls. They also indicate a failure of the company
       to learn the lessons from previous enforcement action (both against Thames Water
       and other companies), and a failure to address the issues identified with sufficient
       urgency.

4.87   These internal reviews are described in more detail in Section 3 but, in general, point
       to significant issues and risks in the company's compliance regime and across many
       areas of the business, from operations and asset management, to staff training and
       awareness, to reporting, oversight and governance. In a September 2019 report to
       Thames Water's Audit, Risk and Reporting Committee (ARRC) following the publication
       of our Southern Water enforcement decision, for example, it was noted that operating
       awareness of legal requirements and permit compliance obligations was immature,
       with a focus on numeric effluent parameters (that is, "end of pipe" or final effluent
       quality metrics 267), and that, in many areas, the delivery of compliant activities was
       reliant on operator instinct. Even in 2021, another internal audit report highlighted
       that there were no formal training programmes to deliver key technical competencies
       for staff which would consistently provide employees with greater knowledge and
       competence to reduce and prevent pollutions, reduce the risk of ineffective decision
       making which could impact on the environment, and reduce the risk of Thames Water
       being in breach of legal and regulatory obligations.

4.88   These risks in the company's systems and controls were known to the company's
       Executive and Board, as was the fact that the Board did not have full sight of other
       aspects of the company's compliance with its environmental obligations. The
       September 2019 ARRC paper concluded, for example, that in relation to Condition P
       "we believe there are strong controls for end-of-pipe parameters, but there is more we
       can do to improve our control of processes and culture to be compliant with the full
       remit of environmental permits and other environmental legislation". This conclusion
       was based on the finding that while information on end-of-pipe compliance, pollutions
       and enforcement was reported monthly to the Board, parameters other than ‘end-of-
       pipe’ were not reported. This, according to the review findings, raised the risk that
       these compliance failures were potentially unknown.

4.89   Despite this, the company does not appear to have acted in a manner we would expect
       of a reasonable and diligent company or responded with any urgency to address these


266
    Lines of Defence for Regulatory Wastewater Compliance: Paper discussed by ARRC, 11 September
2019; Compliance with Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPRs) Risk, Audit & Assurance - Internal
Audit: Final Interna Audit Report. 2 January 2019; Internal Audit Report on Pollutions Reduction and
Prevention Risk, Audit & Assurance, 17 May 2021.
267
    Numeric discharge permit conditions include sanitary parameters such as Biochemical Oxygen
Demand (BOD), Ammonia and Suspended Solids.

                                                155
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       known risks. The papers we have seen from 2019 onwards indicate, that until recently,
       the information being presented to the Board on the performance of the company's
       WWTW continued to focus on a relatively narrow set of indicators or parameters which
       fed into the company's EPA report or were relevant to the company's price review PCs
       and ODIs. It would also appear from the evidence provided to us that even when issues
       around FFT compliance were discussed by Board, the focus was on the level and
       timing of investment under the G2G programme rather than on the need for the
       company to restore compliance at all of its sites as a matter of urgency rather than
       deferring action to address known non-compliance risks, which is what the company
       actually did 268.

4.90   As a result, there was a lack of awareness of, and insufficient challenge applied to,
       WWTW and network performance data at Board level. Moreover, throughout this time,
       and despite the risks highlighted above, the Board continued to provide an annual
       ring-fencing certificate to Ofwat to assure us that the company had adequate
       resources and systems of planning and internal control to enable it to secure the
       carrying out of its regulated activities.

4.91   While the company did highlight a number of material instances of non-compliance
       and missed targets and commitments in its annual Risk and Compliance Statement
       (RCS), as explained earlier, it continued to focus on indicators or parameters which
       fed into its EPA report or were relevant to the company's PCs and ODIs such as number
       of pollution incidents or number of fines or Environment Agency prosecutions for
       breaches under the Environmental Permitting Regulations. In its 2019 RCS, for
       example, Thames Water noted that it had failed to meet its PC on WWTW discharge
       compliance. This largely relates to compliance with "end-of-pipe" effluent quality.
       There was no reference to the company's performance in relation to flow compliance
       and none of the documents which were provided to Ofwat as part of the annual
       certification process over the period 2019 to 2021 highlighted the ongoing compliance
       risk that the company was exposed to by the failure of a significant number of its
       WWTW to meet their FFT permit conditions, despite internal reviews during that period
       demonstrating that this was known to the company.

4.92   While more recently the company has begun to focus more on its performance in
       terms of pollution and spills to the environment, it would appear that it was only as a
       result of our initial request for information for our investigation in November 2021 that
       the company fully acknowledged, and took steps to address, the fact that there were
       other material areas where it was non-compliant with its environmental obligations




268
   Thames Water has told us that its work on identifying and resolving flow to full treatment issues
through its G2G programme "has been conducted with the awareness of the Board".

                                                  156
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       (including non-compliance with FFT permit conditions) which should be included in
       its reporting for its RCS in 2022 269.

4.93   Even for the sites which Thames Water had identified as being of the highest priority
       because of their compliance risks, progress to address and resolve issues has been
       slow. Thames Water has acknowledged this but cited a change in its capital delivery
       model and Covid 19 as factors for delivery delays in the early part of AMP7. While
       recognising that Covid did impact on all companies within the sector, any potential
       delivery risks due to the introduction of a new capital delivery model is something that
       the company should have anticipated, planned for and managed to ensure that it did
       not negatively impact on its ability to meet its regulatory obligations. Moreover, while
       Thames Water has denied that this was the case, a number of internal documents also
       suggest that the speed with which the company chose to address compliance risks
       was also impacted by its decisions to prioritise spending on other areas of the
       business or to focus on those areas which had, historically, been subject to greater
       regulatory scrutiny 270. In our view, addressing compliance risks was not sufficiently
       prioritised in Thames Water's investment decisions.

4.94   Moreover, while Thames Water has sought to challenge our finding (including in its
       response to our draft decision), as noted previously, this mirrors the findings of its own
       internal review following the publication of our Southern Water case. That review
       concluded that historic prioritisation of capital maintenance had not put robust and
       resilient environmental compliance with all permit/consent conditions as a high
       priority, instead concentrating on 'end-of-pipe' compliance, and recommended that
       the governance behind capital spend and investment should formally consider and
       prioritise compliance requirements moving forward.

4.95   When questioned about its decision making on the level and timing of investment to
       address compliance risk, Thames Water told us that it had sought to balance a
       number of the company's risks and competing priorities when making these decisions,
       including tackling leakage, addressing pollutions, improving service and reducing the
       risk of asset failure. It noted too that in line with its systems and procedures for
       making investment decisions, priorities were driven by an assessment of available
       funding and outcomes, based on the data available.



269
    Executive Strategic Decision-Making Committee: 07 March 2022: Quarterly Condition P “Ring-
fencing Certificate” Report.
270
    In a Board paper to support discussions on Thames Water's business plan (IB2) dated September
2020, for example, under the heading Waste Asset Risks it noted "Historically (EA & TW) focus on
biological standards, recent years increased regulatory focus on other parameters especially Flow to
Full Treatment. Going to Green does not complete until AMP8 as challenged pre-Jan." The same
document, under the heading "Effluent - Optimising the asset base we have and getting back to
standard" refers to the G2G as "the AMP7/8 programme of rectifying compliance breaches of site
consent permit requirements that have historically received less regulatory pressure including FFT,
DWF and location of return flows".

                                                 157
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

4.96   Even when assessing the potential legal and regulatory implications of Ofwat's
       Southern Water case for the company and, whilst recognising the risk of enforcement
       action by the Environment Agency ("if we do not deliver on our commitment to
       improve, such as through ‘Go to Green’" and from Ofwat due to the fact that "there are
       some areas where it is not known whether we are fully compliant with our Section 94
       obligations"), the company, nevertheless, considered that "its actions were those of a
       reasonable company within the prioritisation of limited investment funds" 271.

4.97   This indicates that even when Thames Water was aware of its compliance risks, it
       failed to address these risks in an appropriate and timely manner and therefore, in
       effect, chose to accept ongoing non-compliance across a significant portion of its
       WWTW estate.

4.98   As highlighted previously, Thames Water has claimed repeatedly that it has always
       acted reasonably within the constraints of the price review process and always
       intended its G2G programme to be multi-AMP so compliance risks at other sites would
       have been prioritised in subsequent investment rounds. However, as we have made
       clear in our determinations for PR24, companies, including Thames Water, were
       already funded to meet environmental permit levels as part of the price review
       process. Moreover, compliance with legal and regulatory obligations is something
       which companies are required to meet as a minimum. It is not a choice that
       companies can make or an obligation they can decide to "de-prioritise".

4.99   Based on the evidence that we have seen, therefore, we have concluded that, from at
       least March 2017, Thames Water failed to act in the manner best calculated to ensure
       it had adequate financial and management resources and systems of planning and
       internal control in place to carry out its regulated activities, and in particular to
       manage and effectively operate its WWTW and networks to meet their environmental
       obligations under their permits and the UWWTR/Section 94.

4.100 As required by Condition P, we would have expected a company to have in place
      adequate systems and controls in order to prevent, identify and address the issues of
      the type outlined in this case (including, for example, ensuring that it was operating
      and managing its assets to ensure that "asset maintenance" was not the reason for so
      many of its storm overflows spilling so frequently). It is also clear that the company
      was aware of at least some of these shortcomings and did not respond swiftly enough
      to address them. It could also have done more to have a better understanding of those
      aspects of its performance it was not yet aware of until revealed during our
      investigation.




  Lines of Defence for Regulatory Wastewater Compliance: Paper discussed by ARRC, 11 September
271

2019.

                                                158
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

4.101 Ofwat considers that Thames Water neglected its obligations in this case. The Board of
      Thames Water placed reliance on a variety of teams and systems to understand the
      performance of its WWTW and networks. These systems and processes were ineffective
      and focused on a relatively narrow set of indicators or parameters which fed into the
      company's EPA report or were relevant to the company's PCs and ODIs. As a result, the
      Board did not seek sufficient information to adequately assure itself, or Ofwat via its
      annual certificate, as to the company's full compliance position, nor to sufficiently
      scrutinise performance in order to drive improvements and secure compliance.

4.102 Thames Water has challenged our assessment that its management team and Board
      did not receive, nor seek, sufficient information and assurance on the operational
      performance of the company’s wastewater assets and their compliance with relevant
      legal obligations. It also rejected any suggestion that it had improperly assured Ofwat
      in relation to the adequacy of its resources and systems of planning and internal
      control in its RFC and its RCS. In its view, the company has, at all time, followed Ofwat
      guidance in relation to the preparation of the RFC and has made suitable disclosures –
      including disclosures relating to permit compliance in its RFC for 2021 -2022 and
      2022-23.

4.103 However, despite Thames Water's challenges and claims to the contrary, as noted
      previously, these are issues and risks that were highlighted by its own internal reviews
      and reports. In 2019, for example, an internal audit report272 had found that "the
      control environment is unsatisfactory and needs major improvements to reduce the
      organisation's exposure to risk to an acceptable level for ensuring compliance with
      Environmental Permit Regulations. We have found that governance and ownership is
      unclear and incomplete, performance reporting has a bias towards pollutions and is
      not designed to pick up other compliance areas". Similarly it concluded that "as with
      governance and oversight, monitoring of performance was mainly aligned to EPA
      requirements and processes that existed under the previous consent regime that
      focus on the quality of wastewater treatment rather than flow management".273

4.104 We have set out the evidence we have relied on in reaching our findings in relation to
      Thames Water's compliance with Condition P in Section 3. This evidence is drawn
      mainly from Thames Water's Board papers and minutes and, in our assessment,
      indicates that, until relatively recently, the focus of the management team and Board

272
    Compliance with Environmental Permitting Regulations (EPRs) Risk, Audit & Assurance - Internal
Audit Final Internal Audit Report, 2 January 2019.
273
    As noted previously, similar concerns about reporting, oversight and governance were still being
raised within Thames Water in 2021. The Internal Audit Report on Pollutions Reduction and Prevention
Risk, Audit & Assurance - from 17 May 2021 also highlighted "an absence of Senior Leadership Team
oversight on Environmental Inspection performance that would enable informed decision making on
mitigating or reducing pollution. According to the report, this increased the risk that the company's
processes might fail or might not effectively keep pace with changes in legislative and/or complex
regulatory landscape leading to instances of non-compliance with the company's obligations".


                                                 159
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

      was on metrics relevant to the Environment Agency's EPA and the company's PCs and
      ODIs under the price control and not on its wider legal obligations. Despite Thames
      Water's challenge, our conclusion also mirrors the findings of the company's own
      internal audit reports which highlighted the risks arising from the company's narrow
      focus on a limited number of metrics.

4.105 Similarly, in relation to Thames Water's RFCs, while we recognise that the company
      has now taken steps to report on risks associated with its wider regulatory obligations,
      it only began to do so for the 2021-22 RFC – which post-dates the opening of our
      investigation. Prior to that, and despite the compliance risks which had been
      identified under the company's G2G programme, these were not referred to in earlier
      RFCs.

4.106 Furthermore, while we also recognise the steps that Thames Water has taken and is
      taking to improve its processes, oversight and governance, the fact that the company
      considers that these changes are needed also serves to underline the fact that there
      were deficiencies in its previous processes and systems.

4.107 While Thames Water has sought to argue that even if it had breached Condition P in
      the past, because of the changes and range of measures it had now introduced to
      improve its processes, oversight and governance, there is no ongoing breach.
      However, whilst we welcome the changes that Thames Water has made and the steps
      that has taken/is taking to improve its processes, oversight and governance, it is too
      early to conclude with any degree of confidence that the changes that it has now put
      in place are sufficient to enable us to conclude that there is no ongoing breach of
      Condition P. This is because of the fact that the company appears to be still
      uncovering new potential issues and its understanding of the steps that it needs to
      take, and the investment that this will require, is still evolving.




                                                160
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

5. Our decision to issue an enforcement order

Background
5.1       Under section 18 WIA91, if we are satisfied that a regulated company is contravening
          or likely to contravene a condition of its Licence or a statutory requirement we are
          under the duty to make an enforcement order containing such provisions as are
          requisite to secure compliance with that condition or requirement.

5.2       Under section 19 WIA91, we are not required to make an enforcement order if we are
          satisfied that the contravention in question is of a trivial nature, or is contrary to our
          duties in Part I WIA91, including our duty to have regard to best regulatory practice
          and our other duties under section 2 WIA91. We may also instead or in part accept
          formal undertakings from a company to take remedial steps as long as we consider
          them appropriate to secure compliance. A company's obligation to comply with an
          undertaking is treated as a statutory requirement which is enforceable by Ofwat under
          section 18 WIA91.

5.3       We do not consider that any of the exceptions in section 19 WIA91 apply and we are
          therefore under a duty to make an enforcement order in this case. The breaches
          identified are significant. We are disappointed that Thames Water has not offered
          formal undertakings which would displace our duty to make an enforcement order. In
          making this decision, we have taken account of Thames Water's financial and
          operational issues alongside our section 2 WIA91 duties more generally including the
          interests of customers and the environment in a restoration of compliance as quickly
          and efficiently as reasonably possible. Our enforcement order is specifically designed
          to take account of issues of affordability, deliverability and financeability in the steps
          and timescales for delivering compliance.

5.4       Under section 108 of the Deregulation Act 2014, in carrying out our enforcement duty
          under section 18 WIA we must have regard to the desirability of promoting economic
          growth, and in particular in a way which ensures that regulatory action is only taken
          where needed; and any action is proportionate. We are also required to have regard to
          any guidance that the secretary of state may issue in relation to the application of this
          duty.

5.5       We note that in the introduction to the duty 274 the current guidance states that the
          duty does not legitimise non-compliance with other duties or objectives, and its
          purpose is not to achieve or pursue economic growth at the expense of necessary
          protections. We also note that it recognises that enforcement action can be necessary
          to protect public health or the environment although care should be taken in relation


274
      Department for Business & Trade, Growth Duty: Statutory Guidance – Refresh, 21 May 2024, page 4.

                                                    161
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       to the actions employed and remedies imposed to ensure that they are proportionate,
       reasonable, not dissuasive to investment and take account of willingness to comply.

5.6    In pursuance of the duties described above, and having regard to the growth duty
       guidance, we have therefore sought to ensure our enforcement action in this case is
       proportionate to the extent of non-compliance we have found and in order that the
       company returns to compliance as quickly and efficiently as reasonably possible,
       consistent with what the company can reasonably deliver.

5.7    Under section 22 WIA91, where a company fails to comply with an enforcement order,
       Ofwat may apply to the court to seek an injunction to compel a company to do so or for
       other forms of appropriate relief. Section 22 also makes clear that the obligation to
       comply with an enforcement order constitutes a duty owed to any person who may be
       affected by a contravention of the order. That person may bring legal proceedings
       against a company if a breach of that duty causes them to sustain loss or damage.

Competition Act 1998

5.8    As mentioned in Section 2, under sections 19(1A) and 19(2A) WIA91, before deciding to
       make an enforcement order or confirm a provisional enforcement order, Ofwat is
       required to consider whether it would be more appropriate for us to proceed under the
       CA98. Ofwat is satisfied that it is more appropriate to make an order pursuant to
       section 18 WIA91 in this case because there are specific statutory and Llicence
       provisions closely related to the issues identified in this investigation which we can
       enforce under that section.

The enforcement order in this case
5.9    As explained in detail in Section 4 above, we have found that Thames Water had acted
       in breach of its duties under the UWWTR, section 94 WIA91 and Condition P of its
       Licence. Accordingly, at Appendix A1 we enclose an enforcement order (the Order)
       which sets out the terms we consider necessary to ensure compliance with these
       provisions. As section 18(1)(b) WIA91 requires us to act also when a company is likely
       to contravene the relevant obligations and we have identified a number of behaviours
       which are likely to give rise to breaches in the future, the Order also sets out a list of
       factors which we consider should prompt the companies to assess their compliance
       going forward.


Effects of the proposed Order

5.10   The Order imposes six broad requirements on Thames Water that require it to address
       the ongoing breaches of its legal and regulatory obligations that we have identified in
       Section 4, and which should avoid the risk of future breaches arising. The company
       will be required to report its progress to us every six months.

                                                162
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

5.11   To support these requirements, Thames Water will be required to produce, and agree
       with us, a series of action plans that detail the steps it will take and the timescales
       within which these will be taken.

5.12   We summarise below the six main requirements and their associated actions plans.

5.13   Requirement 1 relates to WWTW and requires Thames Water to ensure and be able to
       demonstrate that all aspects of its WWTW are, and for the foreseeable future will
       continue to be, designed, constructed, operated and maintained in order to receive
       and treat the volumes of received wastewater and DWF storm sewage they receive
       from their catchment area under normal local climatic conditions, ensuring assets
       have appropriate FFT and storage levels to enable this. To support this requirement,
       Thames Water will be required to:

       •   Put in place an action plan (the WWTW Remediation Plan) that will require it to
           review its WWTW asset base for potential compliance issues, conduct root cause
           analysis and remedy any issues identified as quickly and efficiently as possible. It
           will also require Thames Water to detail the processes and procedures that it has
           in place to identify assets that are operating below their design capacity,
           investigate these and take action appropriate remedial action.

       •   Ensure and demonstrate that it has operational planning and systems in place to
           regularly review and proactively respond to catchment changes that may result in
           the design, construction, operation and/or maintenance of the WWTW becoming
           insufficient for the volumes of sewage received.

       •   Demonstrate that it has ensured that all relevant assets have environmental
           permits and that these are adequate for the volumes of sewage received at the
           WWTW. Where permits require revision, Thames Water will be required to engage
           proactively with the Environment Agency to update those permits.

5.14   Requirement 2 relates to the wastewater network and requires Thames Water to
       ensure and be able to demonstrate that all aspects of its wastewater network assets
       are, and for the foreseeable future will continue to be, designed, constructed,
       operated and maintained in order to transport to WWTW for treatment the volumes of
       received wastewater and storm sewage they receive from their catchment area under
       normal local climatic conditions. To support this requirement, Thames Water will be
       required to:

       •   Put in place an action plan (the Network Remediation Plan) that will require it to
           review its wastewater asset base for potential compliance issues, conduct root
           cause analysis and remedy any issues identified as quickly and efficiently as
           possible. It will also require Thames Water to detail the processes and procedures



                                                163
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

           that it has in place to identify assets that are operating below their design
           capacity, investigate these and take action appropriate remedial action.

       •   Ensure and demonstrate that it has operational planning and systems in place to
           regularly review and proactively respond to catchment changes that may result in
           the design, construction, operation and/or maintenance of its sewerage network
           becoming insufficient for the volumes of sewage received.

       •   Demonstrate that it has ensured that all relevant assets have environmental
           permits and that these are adequate for the volumes of sewage received in the
           sewerage network. Where permits require revision, Thames Water will be required
           to engage proactively with the Environment Agency to update those permits.

5.15   Requirement 3 requires Thames Water to ensure and be able to demonstrate that
       discharges to the environment of wastewater that have not been fully treated only
       arise as a result of exceptional circumstances or in situations where no cost beneficial
       solution exists to avoid discharges from occurring. To support this requirement,
       Thames Water will be required to:

       •   Put in place an action plan (the Overflow Plan) setting out the processes and
           procedures that it has in place to investigate and take remedial action in relation
           to high spilling storm overflows and emergency overflows.

       •   Apply the BTKNEEC test when considering solutions to minimise environmental
           harm from discharges, ensuring that the full range of remedial options have been
           assessed, that all relevant issues are considered when assessing the costs of
           environmental harm and that account is taken of the latest technological
           advances.

       •   Demonstrate that it has ensured that all storm overflows have environmental
           permits. Where storm overflows lack permits or these require revision, Thames
           Water will be required to engage proactively with the Environment Agency.

       •   Work with the Environmental Agency to develop and agree a protocol for assessing
           the environmental impact of discharges waterways that are polluted from multiple
           locations.

5.16   Requirement 4 requires Thames Water to ensure and be able to demonstrate that its
       senior management and Board actively review and challenge the company's
       compliance with its environmental permits, the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91
       obligations on a regular basis, and that they receive all the information they need to
       be able to do this. To support this requirement, Thames Water will be required to:




                                                164
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       •   Create an action plan (the Management Plan) for putting in place measures to
           ensure that the necessary compliance information is provided to its senior
           management and Board and that this information will be used to review and
           challenge the company's compliance performance.

       •   Demonstrate that it has implemented the Management Plan and is using relevant
           information to monitor and address compliance issues within the company and to
           plan for the long-term needs of its catchment.

       •   Develop and implement an annual training programme for operational staff and
           senior management to ensure that they understand the compliance requirements
           of the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91, and are familiar with the processes that need
           to be followed to report and escalate potential non-compliance within the
           company.

5.17   Requirement 5 requires Thames Water to deliver the actions set out in the plans
       agreed under Requirements 1-4 in accordance with their deadlines and terms. We
       have reserved the right to require amendments to be made to one or more of the
       agreed plans should circumstances change.

5.18   Requirement 6 requires Thames Water to report to us on a six-monthly basis on its
       progress against the requirements of the Order and to publish on its website details of
       its progress and a summary of the actions it has taken.

5.19   Thames Water will be required to present and obtain our agreement to the action
       plans discussed above within six months of the date of the Order. We will not
       unreasonably withhold our agreement to these plans but reserve the right to require
       amendments be made to one or more of the plans should circumstances change.

5.20   By virtue of section 22 WIA91, the Order would also have the following effects:

       •   The obligation to comply with an enforcement order shall be a duty owed to any
           person who may be affected by a contravention of the Order.

       •   In any proceedings brought against any company in the pursuance of paragraph
           5.6 above, other than proceedings in respect of so much of a contravention of any
           order as consists in a breach of a duty imposed by virtue of section 68(1)(a) or
           (1A)(a) WIA91, it shall be a defence for the person to show that the person took all
           reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to avoid contravening the order.

       •   Without prejudice to any right which any person may have by virtue of paragraph
           5.6 above to bring civil proceedings in respect of any contravention or
           apprehended contravention of an enforcement order, compliance with any such



                                                165
Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                    on Thames Water

   order shall be enforceable by civil proceedings by the relevant enforcement
   authority for an injunction or any other appropriate relief.




                                         166
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water


6. Our decision to impose a financial penalty and the
broad level of that penalty

Relevant provisions of the WIA91
6.1    Under sections 22A(1)(a) and 22A(2)(a) of the WIA91, Ofwat may impose on a water or
       sewerage company a penalty of such amount (not exceeding 10% of the regulated
       company's relevant turnover in a relevant year) as is reasonable in all the
       circumstances of the case, where it is satisfied that the company has contravened or
       is contravening any condition of its Licence, or any statutory requirement Ofwat is
       responsible for enforcing.

6.2    Under section 22A(11) of the WIA91, no penalty imposed by Ofwat under section 22A
       may exceed 10% of the turnover of the company, determined in accordance with the
       Water Industry (Determination of Turnover for Penalties) Order 2005. Article 3 of that
       Order provides that for the purposes of section 22A(11) of the WIA91, the relevant
       turnover of a company is the applicable turnover for the preceding business year net
       of tax (that is, the last business year preceding the date on which Ofwat gives notice
       under section 22A(6) of the WIA91). Article 2(2) defines “applicable turnover" as “the
       amounts, determined in conformity with normal accounting practice in the United
       Kingdom, which are derived by a company from the provision of goods and services in
       the course of the company's regulated activities in respect of which the penalty is
       imposed” and Article 2(1) defines “regulated activities" as:

               “(a) in the case of a company holding an appointment as a water undertaker,
               its functions as a water undertaker;

               (b) in the case of a company holding an appointment as a sewerage
               undertaker, its functions as a sewerage undertaker;”

6.3    For the purposes of the penalty in this case we have considered the business year from
       1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024. Thames Water's applicable turnover derived from its
       activities as a sewerage company in that business year was £1,160.998 million. 275
       Accordingly, the maximum penalty that we could impose on the company would be
       10% of this number, that is, £116.10 million.


275
   Thames Water's relevant turnover of £1,160.998m was calculated as the sum of revenues from retail
wastewater services (£59.058m), wastewater network+ (£893.995m), bioresources (£201.139m), bulk
wastewater supplies (£3.110m) and other third-party wastewater revenue (£3.696m). Source: Thames
Water Annual Performance Report 2023-24, pages 104 and 107. As the reported revenues from retail
wastewater services relate to both water and wastewater services, we have estimated the proportion
for wastewater services on the basis of the ratio of Wastewater Network+ revenues to Water Network+
revenues. We have adopted the same approach in apportioning other third-party revenue.

                                                167
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

6.4       Under section 22C(1) of the WIA91 Ofwat may only impose a penalty for breaches
          which occurred within five years of the penalty being imposed, unless, before the end
          of that period, a notice under section 203 WIA91 is issued or a provisional or final
          enforcement order is issued. In this case this means that we can only apply a penalty
          in respect of a breach that occurred after 8 March 2017. 276

6.5       Ofwat is satisfied that the breaches for which a penalty is being applied fall within the
          permitted time period for imposing a penalty under section 22C(1) WIA91.

6.6       Under section 22A(6) WIA91, we must specify the acts or omissions and any “other
          facts” which we consider justify imposing a penalty for a relevant contravention, and of
          the amount proposed.

6.7       Pursuant to section 22B(2) WIA91, Ofwat must have regard to its most recently
          published statement of policy with respect to financial penalties (Statement of Policy)
          when deciding whether to impose a penalty, and its amount. The growth duty in
          section 108 of the Deregulation Act 2015 (and subsequent sections) also applies to the
          imposition of a penalty. The factors set out in our Statement of Policy have guided us
          in considering whether a penalty is necessary and proportionate consistent with that
          duty.

6.8       Section 22A(9) WIA91 provides that penalties imposed under section 22A WIA91 are
          paid into the HM Treasury's Consolidated Fund.



Competition Act 1998

6.9       As mentioned in Section 2, sections 22A(13) and 22A(14) WIA91 provide that before
          imposing a financial penalty Ofwat must consider whether it would be more
          appropriate to proceed under CA98. As stated in Section 5 above, Ofwat is satisfied
          that it is more appropriate to proceed under section 22A WIA91 given that it enables
          Ofwat to impose penalties in respect of specific statutory and Licence provisions
          closely related to the issues identified in this investigation.



Ofwat's reasons for considering it appropriate to impose a
penalty and the proposed broad level of that penalty

6.10      We are satisfied that Thames Water has contravened Regulations 4(4)(a), Regulations
          4(2) and Schedule 2 UWWTR, section 94 WIA91, and Condition P of its licence in




276
      We issued the notice under section 203(2) WIA91 on 8 March 2022.

                                                    168
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       relation to how it managed and operated its WWTW and the collecting systems that
       flow to its WWTW.

6.11   In determining whether to impose penalties for these contraventions, and their broad
       level, we have had regard to Ofwat’s Statement of Policy and in particular the following
       factors, as further detailed below:

            •   The seriousness and duration of the contraventions or failure;

            •   If the contravention or failure has damaged the interests of customers, the
                degree of harm caused and also any increased costs incurred by customers;
            •   If the application of a penalty would be likely to create an incentive to comply
                and deter future contraventions or failures;
            •   Any gains made by the company (financial or otherwise);
            •   Any damage to other market participants;
            •   Any damage caused to the environment;
            •   Whether the contraventions or failure was or is of a trivial nature;
            •   Whether the contravention or possibility of a contravention would have been
                apparent to a diligent company; and
            •   Precedents set under equivalent provisions for other utilities.

The seriousness and duration of the contraventions

6.12   Thames Water must provide sewerage services across its area of appointment in line
       with its statutory duties and licence obligations. Under the UWWTR it is required to
       ensure that its WWTW are designed, constructed, operated and maintained in
       accordance with BTKNEEC so that, under normal local climatic conditions, all
       wastewater is collected and treated sufficiently in order to minimise adverse effects
       on the environment. As a general duty, section 94 WIA91 is one of the core obligations
       of a sewerage company. Condition P is a fundamental requirement of an efficient and
       effectively operated company. We therefore consider a contravention of these
       provisions to be serious.

6.13   In considering whether breaches of the UWWTR are sufficiently serious to warrant a
       penalty, we have focused on those breaches which are also inconsistent with the
       environmental permitting regime, or which involve assets spilling above the 60-spill
       SOAF threshold, and have also considered how Thames Water has engaged with the
       expectations of the SOAF.

6.14   We note, for example, that, in relation to breaches of Regulation 4(4) Thames Water
       recorded over 60 spills at almost 30% of the storm overflows associated with its WWTW
       in 2021 which surpasses the SOAF spill thresholds. At the same time, however, we also

                                                169
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       recognise that the company has engaged with the SOAF process and is in the process
       of completing, or has completed, investigations to identify and address potential root
       causes of spills at a significant number of sites where infiltration or hydraulic capacity
       have been identified as the reason for the high spills. We have taken this into account
       as part of our overall assessment of whether the company has breached its obligations
       in this case, including its obligations under UWWTR, and whether a breach is
       sufficiently serious to warrant the imposition of a penalty in this case.

6.15   We also note, however, that a significant number of the spills at Thames Water's high
       spilling sites have been due to asset maintenance issues (other than infiltration), such
       that (absent unusual circumstances) a BTKNEEC solution for the spill, that is, the
       proper maintenance of the existing assets, was readily available. In our assessment,
       these are issues that a diligent and reasonable company should be taking proactive
       steps to prevent and, if issues still arise, should be taking urgent remedial action to
       address.

6.16   On balance, therefore, and given the range of other factors that we considered when
       arriving at our decision, we remain of the view that Thames Water's has breached
       Regulation 4(4) and Regulation 4(2) of UWWTR, Section 94 WIA91 and Condition P of its
       licence. We also consider that nature and scale of these breaches warrant a
       significant penalty.

6.17   We also note that, despite the Board's awareness of issues at its WWTW and on its
       network and shortcomings in its compliance regime, it continued until relatively
       recently to assure us about the adequacy of its resources and systems of planning and
       internal control in the annual Ring-Fencing Certificate (RFC) and Risk and Compliance
       Statement (RCS).

6.18   We are satisfied that the breaches identified in this investigation occurred from at
       least March 2017 onwards. Thames Water has been aware of potential compliance
       risks at a significant number of its WWTW since at least 2017 when it established its
       G2G programme following prosecution by the Environment Agency. While we cannot
       be certain of the duration of issues at individual WWTW sites and spills from individual
       storm overflows on the network, the evidence shows that a number of WWTW sites
       were rated red or amber in the company's 2017 and that the failure to limit pollution
       from storm overflows has persisted for several years.

If the contravention or failure has damaged the interests of customers,
the degree of harm caused, and also any increased costs incurred by
customers

6.19   The evidence obtained during the course of our investigation indicates that Thames
       Water's customers have not received the level of service that they are entitled to from
       a statutory provider of sewerage services.

                                                170
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

6.20   Our decision is not based on any conclusions as to the degree of harm caused to the
       environment or customers as a result of the failures we have identified. As spills
       arising from Thames Water's failures occurred in the past, it is difficult for us to
       definitively establish whether there was customer harm at the time as a result of
       those spills 277. However, as we explain in our Statement of Policy, when assessing the
       appropriate level of penalty we consider factors relevant to each case. In this case, we
       consider it appropriate to take into account the risk of customer harm and are
       satisfied that spilling more frequently than permitted by the UWWTR increased the
       risk that customers suffered indirect harm, for example, through the loss of ability to
       swim or fish in rivers or streams.

If the application of a penalty would be likely to create an incentive to
comply and deter future contraventions or failures

6.21   We consider that a financial penalty issued under section 22A of the WIA91 will act as
       an incentive to deter future contraventions or failures by Thames Water and/or other
       companies.

Any gains made by the company (financial or otherwise) from the
contraventions

6.22   We have not found evidence that Thames Water underspent on wastewater relative to
       the funding allocated to it under AMP6, or that the company made financial gains from
       the contraventions identified, but it does appear that its spending on wastewater was
       slower than planned in the early stages of AMP7. The company told us that this was
       due, in part, to the impact of Covid 19 and the change in its delivery model for AMP7.
       While recognising that the impact of Covid was outside the company's control, the
       change to its delivery model was certainly within its control and it should have been
       able to anticipate, plan for, and manage any delivery risks arising. Moreover, it would
       also appear that in the early part of AMP7 the options to delay and defer spending on
       wastewater were actively considered by the Executive and Board because of a desire
       to prioritise other areas of the business which were subject to greater regulatory
       scrutiny.

6.23   It is also clear from the evidence that we have seen that Thames Water has failed to
       make necessary investment at a number of its WWTW and on its network. While it was
       aware of potential compliance risks at a significant number of its sites, it chose to




   The information that Thames Water provided on its sites which were triggered for investigation
 277

 under SOAF, shows that of the 62 storm overflows that were progressed to Stage 2 (to assess for
 environmental and water quality impacts), at the vast majority of those (52 or 84%) the spills had had
 an environmental impact and at 23 sites (37%) the spills had had a severe impact on water quality.


                                                 171
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       prioritise investment at higher risk sites only – so deferring action, and investment, to
       address compliance risks at other sites.

6.24   During the course of our investigation, the company identified 157 sites of concern and
       estimated that it would require a further [CONFIDENTIAL – REDACTED] on top of the
       investment previously allocated under its G2G programme to bring all 157 sites of
       concern back into compliance by the end of AMP8. As noted previously, in its business
       plans for PR24, Thames Water's estimate of the level of investment needed to restore
       compliance at these sites had increased again (to a total of £677 million under its
       WAAP in its original business plan but this was later increased to £1,044 million as part
       of an further case for enhanced expenditure submitted by Thames Water.). While
       Thames Water had sought funding for these under PR24, its request was rejected as
       Ofwat considered that Thames Water had already been funded to comply with its
       permits as part of its base expenditure allowance in previous price controls and
       therefore, any improvements required to address current non-compliance against
       existing permits must be funded by companies as we would not allow customers to pay
       twice.

6.25   Thames Water has claimed it has always acted as a reasonable company within the
       financial constraints imposed on it by the price review process, and also spent/will
       have spent all the funds allocated to it in AMP6 and AMP7. However, given the degree
       of non-compliance with environmental permits that Thames Water has now identified,
       and the scale of investment that it has estimated will be needed to address this non-
       compliance, it would appear that those funds were not directed effectively. We have
       also seen no evidence to indicate that it sought further investment to enable it to
       address compliance risks over this period, nor is there evidence that its shareholders
       offered to fund any remedial work needed. Indeed, even when further opportunities
       arose to enable companies to access additional funding for schemes aimed at
       delivering lasting environmental improvements under the Green Recovery
       Programme 278, Thames Water failed, for example, to request funding to address issues
       associated with its high spilling sites 279. It also failed to obtain any funding under the
       Accelerated Infrastructure Delivery Project280, which, amongst other things, had
       invited submissions from companies for accelerated investment to tackle spills from
       storm overflows. In that case, Thames Water's proposals for funding related primarily
       to schemes aimed at improving water resilience, but here its proposals were rejected
       due to a lack of sufficient detail.




278 Green recovery - Ofwat

279 Thames Water did request and obtain funding under Green Recovery but this related to its roll-out

of smart water meters.
280 Accelerated Infrastructure Delivery Project - Ofwat


                                                  172
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Any damage to other market participants

6.26   It is reasonable to conclude that customers’ confidence in the sector as a whole has
       been damaged by Thames Water's failure to fulfil its duties under the UWWTR, section
       94 WIA91 and Condition P. It is also reasonable to conclude that it has lead to
       reputational damage, damage to confidence in the regulatory regime and damage to
       investors' confidence in the sector.

Any damage caused to the environment

6.27   The evidence available to us indicates that Thames Water has persistently failed to
       ensure that its WWTW and networks are designed, constructed, operated and
       maintained so that, under the normal local climatic conditions, all wastewater is
       collected and treated sufficiently in order to minimise adverse effects on the
       environment.

6.28   As set out in Section 3, the poor performance and management of so many of Thames
       Water's WWTW and its failure to have proper oversight of storm overflows on its
       network has meant that spills of untreated wastewater have occurred in
       circumstances which could not be classed as exceptional. In 2021, for example, 73% of
       the storm overflows associated with Thames Water's WWTW (171 overflows) recorded
       20 or more spills and almost 30% recorded more than 60 spills (the majority of which
       due to asset maintenance issues). In addition, while the number of recorded spills
       from storm overflows on Thames Water's network were lower, the fact that in its return
       to the Environment Agency for 2022 it identified 312 additional storm overflows (the
       vast majority on its network) which had not previously been listed; which did not have
       monitors in place; and a significant number of which were also unpermitted 281 –
       suggests that the true scale of spills from Thames Water's storm overflows is likely to
       be much higher. While Thames Water has now told us that as a result of its
       investigations, it now believes that the number of 'genuine' overflows is lower than
       originally estimated, and that it has already applied for permits for a number of those
       overflows, the fact remains that Thames Water failed to ensure that all its assets are
       appropriately managed and monitored to meet the relevant standards and provide
       sufficient performance to comply with the UWWTR.

6.29   As noted above, our decision is not based on any conclusions as to the degree of harm
       caused to the environment or customers as a result of the failures we have identified.
       As spills arising from Thames Water's failures occurred in the past, it is difficult for us
       to definitively establish whether there was environmental harm at the time as a result
       of those spills (though Thames Water's own assessment indicates that at the majority
       of the sites which progressed to Stage 2 of the SOAF, the spills had had an


281 Thames Water has told us that it has now begun to reduce this number as part of its unpermitted

CSO programme.

                                                 173
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       environmental impact). However, as we explain in our Statement of Policy, when
       assessing the appropriate level of penalty we consider factors relevant to each case. In
       this case, we consider it appropriate to take into account the risk of environmental
       harm and are satisfied that spilling more frequently than permitted by the UWWTR
       increased the risk of damage to the natural environment and ecology; poorer
       aesthetics and amenity value in the local area; and public nuisance.

Whether the contraventions or failure was or is of a trivial nature

6.30   We have outlined above the serious nature of Thames Water's contraventions, not only
       in terms of their scale and scope but also in terms of their duration.

Whether the contravention or possibility of a contravention would have
been apparent to a diligent company

6.31   Thames Water’s poor performance has resulted, at least in part, from the
       shortcomings in the internal controls and management of its WWTW and network,
       which we consider would have been apparent to a diligent company. Moreover, even
       when the company was aware of actual non-compliance with environmental permits
       or the risk of non-compliance, it failed to act with sufficient urgency.

6.32   While Thames Water has repeatedly told us that its inability to identify potential non-
       compliance on the scale it now has is due, primarily, to a lack of accurate data, that
       lack of data in itself was due in part to its own failings to properly install and maintain
       EDM monitors at its WWTW (which in turn was failings to properly oversee its capital
       delivery partners). Regardless of the absence of data from monitors on its sites,
       Thames Water's processes and controls should have been robust enough to ensure
       that it had a full understanding of its assets and how those assets were performing –
       particularly given the fact that other sources of information, including mounting
       complaints from stakeholders, was clearly suggesting that things might be going
       wrong across is WWTW estate and network.

6.33   Instead of focusing on its true compliance position, the management and Board of
       Thames Water concentrated on a relatively narrow set of indicators or parameters
       which fed into the company's EPA report or were relevant to the company's PCs and
       ODIs. As a result, and despite the fact that this narrow focus was highlighted as a risk
       in its own internal reviews, there was a lack of sufficient challenge applied to WWTW
       and network performance and compliance information at Board level.

6.34   Thames Water remains ultimately responsible for ensuring that it has met its
       obligations. Given the scale of the potential non-compliance that Thames Water has
       reported and the frequency with which so many of its storm overflows were spilling,
       Ofwat considers that Thames Water did not have appropriate systems in place to
       enable it to identify and address potential non-compliance across its WWTW estate

                                                174
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

          and network and to ensure that that its WWTW are designed, constructed, operated
          and maintained so that, under the range of typical local climatic conditions, all
          wastewater is collected and treated sufficiently in order to minimise adverse effects
          on the environment.

6.35      In addition, in 2019 Ofwat imposed a penalty on Southern Water for a breach of its
          duties under section 94 WIA91 and Condition P. In our decision document in that case,
          we sent a clear signal to the sector about the importance of ensuring that WWTW were
          effectively managed and were meeting FFT permit conditions. Thames Water was
          aware of this case and had considered the implications of the approach that Ofwat
          had adopted for its own compliance risks, under section 94 WIA91 and Condition P.
          And yet, despite this, and despite the fact that Thames Water itself had been the
          subject of record fines relating to serious pollution incidents at its WWTW because of
          shortcomings in its management of FFT, it failed to act with any real urgency.

6.36      When issuing our determination in the Southern Water case, we also wrote to the CEOs
          of all companies 282 to ensure that they were aware of our findings against Southern
          Water and asked them to consider whether they were confident that the events which
          occurred at Southern Water could not happen in their own organisation. In addition,
          we used these letters as an opportunity to reinforce our message to the sector that we
          will not tolerate companies that "show scant regards to their responsibilities to
          customers and the environment" and noted that "Companies should expect us to step
          up the sanctions we impose for breaches of this nature".

6.37      In 2018 Ofwat also imposed a financial penalty on Thames Water itself for a failure to
          meet its obligations under section 37 WIA91 (the equivalent of its general duty under
          section 94 WIA91 but relating to the provision of water services) and Condition F (now
          Condition P).283 As a result of our case, Thames Water agreed formal undertakings
          under section 19 WIA91, which included undertakings regarding the adequacy of its
          systems of planning and control to meet its regulatory obligations.

6.38      The failings of Thames Water identified in this investigation, occurred despite the
          existence of these precedents. This further shows that Thames Water did not act like a
          diligent company.

Precedents set under equivalent provisions for other utilities

6.39      We are not aware of any relevant precedent decisions by other regulators in respect of
          provisions equivalent to the UWWTR, section 94 of the WIA91 and Condition P.




282
      Letter from Ofwat Chief Executive to all CEOs regarding Southern Water, 28 June 2019.
283
      Investigation into Thames Water’s failure to meet its leakage performance commitments - Ofwat

                                                   175
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water




Conclusion on the appropriateness of financial penalty and its broad
level

6.40   Having considered the factors above, we are satisfied that a financial penalty is
       appropriate in Thames Water's case. As discussed in detail, we have found that
       Thames Water contravened several of its duties and obligations. These are interrelated
       to an extent and their combined effect impacts on the seriousness of Thames Water's
       conduct as a whole. Therefore, we consider it appropriate to issue a single penalty,
       rather than separate penalties in respect of each breach. The broad framework that
       we have used to assess the seriousness of the breaches we have identified, to
       establish the appropriate level of penalty is set out in Appendix A7.

6.41   In setting the broad penalty level, we took the factors above into account, as well as
       both the cumulative effect of all breaches and the degree of overlap between them.
       We have had particular regard to the serious and widespread nature of the breaches.

6.42   Against this background, therefore, we consider that the broad level of penalty should
       be set at 8.5% of the company's relevant turnover from its wastewater activities.



Aggravating and mitigating factors

6.43   As set out in our Statement of Policy, other aggravating and mitigating factors may be
       taken into consideration to make further adjustments to the penalty level. We are
       satisfied that certain further adjustments are warranted in Thames Water's case. We
       explain this in detail below in relation to the following factors we have considered:

            •   repeated contraventions or failures;
            •   the continuation of a contravention or failure;
            •   any involvement of senior management;
            •   the level of cooperation with any investigation carried out;
            •   any attempts to conceal the contravention or failure;
            •   the proactive reporting of the contravention or failure to the enforcement
                authority;
            •   taking appropriate action to acknowledge and rectify the contravention or
                failure; and
            •   activities to provide restitution and compensation.




                                                176
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Aggravating factors

Repeated contraventions or failures

6.44   Ofwat has not previously taken enforcement action against Thames Water under the
       UWWTR so the breaches of Regulation 4(4)(a) and Regulation 4(2) and Schedule 2 of
       the UWWTR identified in this investigation do not amount to repeated breaches.

6.45   In 2018, however, we found that Thames Water had breached section 37 WIA91 (an
       equivalent of section 94 WIA91 but for water) and Condition F (now Condition P) of its
       Licence. In this case, we have also concluded that the company has breached its
       obligations under Condition P. We appreciate that the breaches in the 2018 case and
       this investigation relate to different types of conduct by Thames Water and, to an
       extent, different obligations. However, the underlying issues surrounding the
       adequacy of Thames Water's financial and management resources and systems of
       planning and control to ensure it is able to fulfil its statutory obligations which gave
       rise to the breach of Condition P are similar in nature in both cases, and have also
       contributed to this breach. We therefore consider this to be an aggravating factor in
       determining an appropriate penalty level.

The continuation of a breach

6.46   As set out above, while we have previously taken enforcement action against the
       company in respect of a breach of its Licence condition (now Condition P), we have
       considered this as a repeated breach rather than a continuation of a previous breach
       in our assessment of potentially aggravating factors.

6.47   As we have not taken enforcement action against Thames Water previously for a
       breach of UWWTR so our findings in relation to Regulation 4(4)(a) and Regulation 4(2)
       and Schedule 2 UWWTR are not considered to be a continuation of a breach and
       therefore have not factored in our determination of an appropriate penalty level.

Any involvement of senior management

6.48   The company's senior management and Board were aware of at least some of the
       compliance risks at Thames Water's WWTW and failed to act to address those risks
       with sufficient urgency (even when the initial impetus for the company to undertake
       the compliance risk assessment was the fact that it had been the subject of a record
       fine for a number of serious pollution incidents at its WWTW and where a failure to
       manage its FFT permit compliance had been identified as a critical factor). The
       company also chose to defer investment on addressing known compliance risks and
       focus resources on areas which, it acknowledges, were, historically, subject to greater
       regulatory scrutiny.



                                                177
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

6.49   It is also evident from the company's own internal audit reports that management had
       been alerted to the risks arising from the company's historic focus on metrics such as
       "end of pipe" compliance rather than on how the company's WWTW were being
       managed in terms of flow compliance and what this might mean for the company's
       compliance regime. These reports also highlighted issues with the company's
       systems, processes and reporting arrangement. Despite this, and despite the fact that
       Thames Water already had section 19 undertaking in place which covered Condition P
       as a result of previous enforcement action we had taken against it, the senior
       management and Board failed to act to address these issues. We consider this to be an
       aggravating factor.

Any attempts to conceal the contravention or failure

6.50   While Thames Water has failed to identify and report the issues concerned in this
       investigation, we have seen no evidence that the company sought to deliberately
       conceal the contraventions or failures identified by our investigation. We therefore do
       not propose to make any adjustments to the penalty level in this respect.



Mitigating factors

The level of co-operation with any investigation carried out

6.51   In general, we expect the regulated companies to cooperate with our investigations. In
       the case of Thames Water, since the opening our investigation it has provided us with
       a large amount of material, shared with us the details of its own assessments and
       proactively engaged with us to identify the steps it might take to address the concerns
       identified. We note, however, that in some instances it failed to answer questions fully
       or chose to interpret our questions very narrowly. This meant that the case team had
       to issue further information requests, which in turn, added to the length of time of the
       information gathering phase of the investigation.

6.52   More specifically we acknowledge the cautious and inclusive approach Thames Water
       adopted in assessing the scale of potential non-compliance with FFT permit
       conditions. This meant that in addition to sites which are clearly underperforming, it
       also included sites where under-performance relative to FFT permit levels may have
       been marginal or skewed by a one-off event. On balance we consider this approach to
       be a mitigating factor in our determination of the penalty level.

The proactive reporting of the contravention or failure to the
enforcement authority

6.53   Thames Water has acknowledged that there have been historic failures of its
       processes in relation to its wastewater management and has also acknowledged the

                                                178
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       scale of its potential non-compliance with its environmental permits. It has also
       pointed to the significant steps that it is now takin to "rectify its accepted failings" 284,
       including proposing to invest over £1,044 million in AMP8 in wastewater compliance.
       However, it has not, to date, acknowledged that the failings identified during the
       course of our investigation, in turn, constitute breaches of the UWWTR, section 94
       WIA91 or Condition P. It has not been proactive in reporting these to Ofwat.

6.54   Indeed, the company has, until recently, continued to provide assurances to us, via its
       annual RFC and RCS, about the adequacy of its systems, processes and resources to
       enable it to meet its statutory and Licence obligations. We therefore do not propose to
       make any adjustments to the penalty level in this respect.

Taking appropriate action to acknowledge and rectify the contravention
or failure.

6.55   As above, Thames Water has not, to date, acknowledged that the issues identified in
       our investigation constitute breaches of the UWWTR, section 94 WIA91 or Condition P.
       However, as also highlighted above, it is now taking action to acknowledge and rectify
       its failings in relation to FFT permit conditions, DWF permit conditions and storm tank
       capacity issues. It has also engaged with the SOAF process and sought to investigate
       its high spilling storm overflows condition and to identify potential solutions at a
       significant number of these sites.

6.56   We also recognise that it has begun to take action to improve its processes and
       procedures to prevent similar issues arising in future and has also put new reporting
       structures in place to ensure a clearer line of sight between environmental permit
       compliance, the Executive and the Board. These steps are welcome. While it is not
       clear, at this stage, whether these steps will be sufficient to address all the issues
       identified as part of our investigation, we have, nevertheless, viewed this as a
       mitigating factor in relation to the determination of an appropriate penalty level.

Activities to provide restitution and compensation

6.57   Thames Water has not provided any assessment of the potential harm that its
       breaches may have caused. Whilst it has begun to take steps to improve engagement
       with local community groups and eNGOs to address their concerns and is seeking to
       be more transparent about the performance of its wastewater assets and the steps it
       is taking to improve that performance, we do not consider these steps to be sufficient
       to constitute a mitigating factor.




284 Thames Water response to Ofwat's provisional findings, January 2024.


                                                 179
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water


The penalty
6.58   Having considered each of the aggravating and mitigating factors outlined above, we
       have concluded that a further upward adjustment to the broad level starting point for
       the penalty is appropriate in this case, and that the final penalty level should be 9.0%
       of Thames Water's relevant turnover of £1,160.998 million. This is equivalent to a
       penalty of £104.5 million.

6.59   In reaching this decision, we have taken account of Thames Water's wider financial
       issues, but consider the fine to be proportionate within the context of Thames Water's
       compliance issues and its ability to finance its operations. Moreover, it is open to
       Thames Water to propose alternative payment terms for the financial penalty, that we
       must consider under section 22A(7) WIA91. We are disappointed that Thames Water
       has not proposed a settlement package that removes or reduces the need for this
       penalty and by providing suitable redress to customers and the environment.




                                                180
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

A1: Enforcement Order

OFWAT HEREBY MAKES A FINAL ENFORCEMENT ORDER UNDER SECTION 18(1) WIA91 IN
RELATION TO THAMES WATER UTILITIES LIMITED AS SET OUT BELOW

Enforcement Order in relation to Thames Water

This document constitutes a final enforcement order (the Order) given by the Water Services
Regulation Authority (the Authority) to Thames Water Services Limited (the Licensee)
under section 18(1) of the Water Industry Act 1991, as amended (WIA91).

Except as otherwise provided in this Order, words and expressions used in this Order have the
same meaning as they have in the WIA91.

On 28 May 2025, the Authority gave notice under section 20 WIA91 of its proposal to make an
order under section 18(1) WIA91 in relation to the Licensee (the 'Notice').

The purpose of this Order is to secure compliance by the Licensee with its statutory
obligations under Regulation 4 and Schedule 2 of the Urban Waste Water Treatment (England
and Wales) Regulations 1994 (UWWTR), section 94 WIA91, and its Instrument of Appointment
(the Licence).


As set out in the Notice:

•   The Licensee has contravened its statutory obligations by failing to ensure that its
    wastewater treatment works (WWTW) and collecting systems were operated, and the
    contents of its sewers treated, in accordance with the requirements of Regulation 4 and
    Schedule 2 UWWTR and section 94 WIA91; and

•   The Licensee has contravened its Licence by failing to comply with the requirements of
    Condition P12.

This Order takes effect as of 28 May 2025.

Requirements
Requirement 1: Securing compliance: Sufficient capacity and performance at
wastewater treatment works (WWTW)

To the extent required by the UWWTR and Section 94 WIA, the Licensee shall ensure and be
able to demonstrate that all aspects of its WWTW are, and for the foreseeable future will
continue to be, designed, constructed, operated and maintained in order to receive and treat
the volumes of received wastewater (dry weather flow (DWF)) and storm sewage they receive


                                                181
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

from their catchment area under usual circumstances (including in normal local climatic
conditions) so as to minimise pollution of the environment, ensuring relevant assets have
appropriate flow to full treatment (FFT) / pass forward flow (PFF) and storage levels to enable
this.

In support of Requirement 1 the Licensee shall:

   a) By 28 November 2025 present and obtain the Authority's agreement (such agreement
      not to be unreasonably withheld) to a plan ("the WWTW Remediation Plan") for (i)
      reviewing its asset base for issues related to compliance with UWWTR and Section 94
      WIA91, (ii) conducting root cause analysis of any potential non-compliance, and (iii)
      remediating non-compliance, and any other identified issues which may result in
      non-compliance, as quickly and efficiently as reasonably possible (such timescales to
      be provided in detail in the plan), taking account of deliverability, affordability and
      financeability. The plan must cover all relevant assets and specify reasonable
      deadlines by which actions will be taken, subject to paragraph 2(b) below. The
      Licensee understands that through future price reviews the Authority will continue to
      determine funding allowances to enable companies to comply with their legal
      obligations as required by the Order and otherwise, recognising the underlying
      principle that customers will not be expected to pay twice by paying again for
      previously funded compliance with legal obligations.

   b) The Licensee will not be held to be in breach of Requirement 1(a) to the extent that it
      can demonstrate that the cause of the delay was reasonably outside its control and
      that it had taken all reasonable steps to minimise that delay.

   c) The WWTW Remediation Plan will include the processes and procedures that the
      Licensee has in place or will put in place to alert it to any concerns over non-
      compliance, so as to enable the Licensee to respond as quickly and as is reasonably
      possible, taking account of deliverability, affordability and financeability, to WWTW
      assets operating below their intended design capacity. This includes identifying and
      swiftly investigating (such investigations to be completed to understand the basis for
      the asset performance and timescales to be provided in detail in the plan), where any
      relevant data or insight indicates that the asset is not, or is at risk of, operating in a
      manner that is not in compliance with UWWTR or section 94 WIA, including where:

          (i)     an asset has spilled more than 20 times on average in a 12-month period (or
                  any tighter threshold established and identified to the Licensee by the
                  Environment Agency or Government);
          (ii)    an asset falls below 108% of the FFT level set out in its environmental permit;
          (iii)   an asset fails to achieve the Q80 DWF level set out in its environmental
                  permit;




                                                182
   Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                       on Thames Water

       (iv)   a storm tank at a WWTW falls below a capacity of 68 litres per head of
              population/2 hours storage (unless this has otherwise been agreed with the
              Environment Agency);
       (v)    an event duration monitor has failed to accurately record data for at least
              90% of a calendar 12-month reporting period;
       (vi) an asset has a reported pollution incident of Category 1-3;
       (vii) an emergency overflow has discharged more than once in any calendar year
              12-month period; and/or
       (viii) an asset which has previously received enhancement funding to meet legal
              obligations, for example to protect bathing waters, RAMSAR, SSSI sites,
              where insufficient operation and management of the asset (rather than new
              demands placed upon it) is identified to now be contributing to the failure of
              the water body to meet legal obligations.
   RAMSAR means Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. RAMSAR sites are wetlands of
   international importance that have been designated under the criteria of that
   Convention for containing representative, rare or unique wetland types or for their
   importance in conserving biological diversity.
   SSSI means Sites of Special Scientific Interest.

d) By 28 November 2025 the Licensee will ensure and be able to demonstrate that it has
   operational planning and systems in place to review, on an annual basis, catchment
   changes (for example in relation to population, changing normal climatic conditions,
   infiltration) that may result in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of
   its WWTW becoming insufficient. This relates to the volumes of wastewater and storm
   sewage the WWTW receive, so that the capacity and performance of those assets
   remains sufficient so as to minimise environmental impact. The Licensee will
   proactively respond (such timescales to be set out in detail in the plan) and remediate
   (taking account of deliverability, affordability and financeability) where it identifies
   potential issues.

e) By 28 November 2025 ensure and be able to demonstrate that it has reviewed the
   requirements of all of its environmental permits to check that all relevant WWTW
   assets are permitted and to check whether the permits' metrics for DWF, FFT/PFF,
   storm tank capacity and other discharge restriction requirements (other than treated
   effluent conditions and any other factors which are outside the scope of the
   investigation) are adequate for the volumes of received wastewater and storm sewage
   and the ecological and environmental needs of the related catchment (in conjunction
   with the Environment Agency), and are consistent with its obligations under the
   UWWTR. Where this is not the case, the WWTW Remediation Plan should set out the
   steps that the Licensee will take, including reasonable deadlines, to engage
   proactively with the Environment Agency to seek for these permits to be amended as
   quickly as reasonably practicable (excluding those permits where such applications
   have already been made and the Licensee is awaiting the Environment Agency


                                            183
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

      response), and to comply with the revised permits. It is accepted that the timescales
      from engaging with the Environment Agency in relation to a permit under this
      paragraph 1(e) to receipt of a revised permit may vary and the Licensee will not be
      penalised for any delays which are reasonably outside of its control.

Requirement 2: Securing compliance: Sufficient capacity and performance of
wastewater network assets

To the extent required by the UWWTR and section 94 WIA, the Licensee shall ensure and be
able to demonstrate that all aspects of its wastewater network assets are, and for the
foreseeable future will continue to be, designed, constructed, operated and maintained in
order to transport to WWTW for treatment the volumes of received wastewater and storm
sewage they receive from their catchment area under usual circumstances (including in
normal local climatic conditions) so as to minimise pollution of the environment, ensuring
relevant assets have appropriate PFF and storage levels to enable this.

In support of Requirement 2 the Licensee shall:

   a) By 28 November 2025 present and obtain the Authority's agreement to a plan (such
      agreement not to be unreasonably withheld) ("the Network Remediation Plan") for
      reviewing its asset base for issues related to compliance with UWWTR and section 94
      WIA, conducting root cause analysis of any compliance concerns and remediating
      identified issues as quickly and efficiently (such timescales to be provided in detail in
      the plan) as reasonably possible, taking account of deliverability, affordability and
      financeability. The plan must cover all relevant assets and specify reasonable
      deadlines by which actions will be taken, subject to paragraph 2(b) below. The
      Licensee understands that through future price reviews the Authority will continue to
      determine funding allowances to enable companies to comply with their legal
      obligations as required by the Order and otherwise, recognising the underlying
      principle that customers will not be expected to pay twice by paying again for
      previously funded compliance with legal obligations.

   b) The Licensee will not be held to be in breach of Requirement 2(a) to the extent that it
      can demonstrate that the cause of the delay was reasonably outside its control and
      that it had taken all reasonable steps to minimise that delay.

   c) The Network Remediation Plan should include the processes and procedures that the
      Licensee has in place or will put in place to alert it to any concerns, so as to enable the
      Licensee to respond as quickly and efficiently as reasonably possible, taking account
      of deliverability, affordability and financeability, to sewerage network assets operating
      below their intended design capacity. This includes identifying and swiftly
      investigating (such investigations to be completed to understand the basis for the
      asset performance and timescales to be provided in detail in the plan), where any



                                                184
   Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                       on Thames Water

   relevant data or insight indicates that the asset is not, or is at risk of, operating in a
   manner that is not in compliance with UWWTR or section 94 WIA, including where:

       (i)   an asset has spilled more than 20 times on average in a 12-month period (or
             any tighter threshold established and identified to the Licensee by the
             Environment Agency or Government);
       (ii) an asset fails to achieve 108% of the PFF level set out in its environmental
             permit;
       (iii) the capacity of a storage tank in the sewerage network has not been agreed
             with the Environment Agency;
       (iv) an event duration monitor has failed to accurately record data for at least 90%
             of a calendar 12-month period;
       (v) an asset has a reported pollution incident of Category 1-3;
       (vi) an emergency overflow has discharged more than once in any calendar year
             12-month period; and/or
       (vii) an asset which has previously received enhancement funding to meet legal
             obligations, for example to protect bathing waters, RAMSAR, SSSI sites, where
             insufficient operation and management of the asset (rather than new
             demands placed upon it) is identified to now be contributing to the failure of
             the water body to meet legal obligations.


   RAMSAR means Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. RAMSAR sites are wetlands of
   international importance that have been designated under the criteria of that
   Convention for containing representative, rare or unique wetland types or for their
   importance in conserving biological diversity.
   SSSI means Sites of Special Scientific Interest.

d) By 28 November 2025 the Licensee will be able to demonstrate that it has appropriate
   operational planning and systems in place to regularly review and proactively respond
   (taking account of deliverability, affordability and financeability) to catchment
   changes (for example in relation to population, changing normal climatic conditions,
   infiltration) that may result in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of
   its sewerage network becoming insufficient for the volumes of wastewater and storm
   sewage they receive, so that the capacity and performance of those assets remains
   sufficient so as to minimise impact to the environment.

e) By 28 November 2025 ensure and be able to demonstrate that it has reviewed the
   requirements of all of its environmental permits to check that all relevant sewerage
   network assets are permitted and to check whether the permits' metrics for PFF and
   storm tank capacity and other discharge restriction requirements are adequate for
   the volumes of received wastewater and storm sewage under usual circumstances
   (including in normal local climatic conditions) and the ecological and environmental
   needs of the related catchment (in conjunction with the Environment Agency), and

                                            185
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

       that they are consistent with its obligations under the UWWTR (other than treated
       effluent conditions, which are outside the scope of our investigation). Where this is
       not the case, the Network Remediation Plan should set out the steps that the Licensee
       will take, including reasonable deadlines, to engage proactively with the Environment
       Agency to seek for these permits to be amended as quickly as reasonably practicable
       and to comply with the revised permits. It is accepted that the timescales from
       engaging with the Environment Agency in relation to a permit under this paragraph
       2(e) to receipt of a revised permit may vary and the Licensee will not be penalised for
       any delays which are reasonably outside of its control.

Requirement 3: Securing compliance: Minimising environmental harm from
untreated wastewater discharges

To the extent required by the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91, the Licensee shall ensure and be
able to demonstrate to the Authority that discharges to the environment of wastewater that
have not been fully treated only arise as a result of exceptional circumstances or in situations
where no cost beneficial solution exists to minimise environmental harm from discharges.

In support of Requirement 3 the Licensee shall:

   a) By 28 November 2025, present and obtain the Authority's agreement toa plan (such
      agreement not to be unreasonably withheld) ("the Overflow Plan") setting out the
      processes and procedures that it has in place or will put in place to investigate and
      take remedial action in relation to high spilling storm and emergency overflows. This
      relates to such overflows where an equivalent investigation/remediation has not
      already taken place pursuant to Requirements 2 and 3 above and is subject to
      paragraph 3(b) below. The Licensee understands that through future price reviews
      the Authority will continue to determine funding allowances to enable companies to
      comply with their legal obligations as required by the Order and otherwise,
      recognising the underlying principle that customers will not be expected to pay twice
      by paying again for previously funded legal obligations.

   b) The Licensee will not be held to be in breach of Requirement 3(a) to the extent that it
      can demonstrate that the cause of the delay was reasonably outside its control and
      that it had taken all reasonable steps to minimise that delay.

   c) This should include ensuring and be able to demonstrate that, irrespective of whether
      an asset is compliant with its environmental permit requirements, if it registers:

          (i)    20 or more spills on average in a 12-month period (or any tighter threshold
                 established and identified to the Licensee by the Environment Agency or
                 Government);




                                                186
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

             (ii)    any dry day spills, as defined by the Environment Agency; 285
             (iii)   any spills which constitutes a pollution incident of Category 1-3; or
             (iv)    more than one discharge from a single emergency overflow in any calendar
                     year.

      d) Apply the BTKNEEC test when considering solutions to minimise environmental harm
         from discharges, ensuring that:

           i.    a reasonable range of remedial options have been assessed, acting diligently,
                 including steps outside the immediate catchment and on a system-wide basis
                 where these may resolve multiple concerns that individually may have been
                 prohibitive to address;
           ii.   in assessing the costs of environmental harm, all relevant issues are
                 considered, including those related to public health and amenity, as well as
                 impacts on plant health and biodiversity; and
          iii.   account is taken of the latest technological advances.

      e) By 28 November 2025 ensure and be able to demonstrate that it has reviewed all of its
         storm overflows to check whether they have the necessary environmental permits.
         Where this is not the case, the Overflow Plan should set out the steps that the
         Licensee it will take, including reasonable deadlines, to engage proactively with the
         Environment Agency to seek for these permits to be obtained as quickly as reasonably
         practicable and to comply with the revised permits. It is accepted that the timescales
         from engaging with the Environment Agency in relation to a permit under this
         condition, to receipt of a revised permit, may vary and the Licensee will not be
         penalised for any delays which are reasonably outside of its control.

      f) Work with the Environment Agency to develop and agree a protocol for assessing the
         environmental impact of discharges to coastal waters and waterways that may have
         an environmental impact from multiple locations. The Licensee will use all reasonable
         endeavours to progress this work in accordance with the Environment Agency’s
         timescales for completion.

Requirement 4: Oversight of compliance

To the extent required by Condition P.12 of its Licence, the Licensee shall ensure and be able
to demonstrate that it has in place processes to ensure that its senior management and
Board actively review and challenge the company's compliance with its environmental
permits, the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91 obligations on a regular basis, including when




285
   The Environment Agency currently defines this as spills occurring on any day when there has been
less than 0.25mm of rainfall in the upstream catchment on that day and the preceding 24 hours.

                                                  187
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

considering and signing-off its annual risk and compliance statements, and that they receive
all the information they need to be able to do this.

In support of Requirement 4, the Licensee shall:

   a) By 28 November 2025, present and obtain the Authority's agreement to a plan (such
      agreement not to be unreasonably withheld) (the Management Plan) for putting in
      place measures to ensure that the necessary compliance information is provided to its
      senior management and Board and that this information will be used to review and
      challenge the company's compliance performance and to ensure that the long-term
      needs of its catchments are met with regard to UWWTR, section 94 WIA91 and
      Condition P of the Licence.

   b) By 28 November 2025 ensure and be able to demonstrate that it has implemented the
      Management Plan and is using compliance information to monitor and address
      UWWTR and section 94 WIA91 compliance issues within the company and to plan for
      the long-term needs of its catchments.

   c) By 28 November 2025, develop and implement a programme for carrying out annual
      training of operational staff and senior management to ensure that they understand
      the compliance requirements of the UWWTR and section 94 WIA and are familiar with
      the processes that need to be followed to report and escalate potential non-
      compliance within the company. Provide a copy of this to the Authority. The Licensee
      shall maintain a register of the implementation of this training (including dates and
      attendees) and provide the Authority with a copy of it and the training material used
      upon request.

Requirement 5: Delivery of the plans

The Licensee must comply with the obligations contained in the Remediation Plan, the
Network Remediation Plan, the Overflow Plan, and the Management Plan in accordance with
their deadlines and terms. Any and all amendments to the plans must be made by written
agreement between the Licensee and the Authority, such agreement not to be unreasonably
withheld by the Authority or the Licensee in all circumstances.

Requirement 6: Reporting

The Licensee will report to us on a six-monthly basis on its progress against the requirements
of this Order and publish on its website details of its progress and a summary of the actions it
has taken. The first report should be provided by 5pm on 28 November 2025.

A failure to comply with this Order may result in the Authority seeking an injunction or other
forms of relief from the court or applying to the court for a special administration order
against the Licensee.

                                                188
      Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                          on Thames Water

Dated: 28 May 2025

Signed on behalf of the Authority




Duly authorised for that purpose by the Authority




                                               189
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

A2: Summary of Responses to Consultation

Introduction

1.   In August 2024, Ofwat consulted on its proposal to issue an enforcement order and
     impose a financial penalty on Thames Water for contravention of its obligations in
     relation to the management of its wastewater treatment assets. At the same time, we
     also consulted on our draft decisions in our investigations into Northumbrian Water and
     Yorkshire Water. The consultations closed on 10 September 2024.

2.   We received a total of 30 responses across all three consultations. In addition to detailed
     responses from Thames Water and the two other companies, we also received responses
     from a number of other water companies; from the Consumer Council for Water (CCW);
     from a number of local councils and local stakeholder and environmental groups in the
     different companies' areas of operation as well as responses from a number of individual
     customers. 286 The responses ranged from very detailed comments relating to the
     specifics of the individual investigations to more general comments and observations on
     water companies' management of their wastewater treatment assets and the action that
     the companies, and Ofwat, should now take.

3.   On 10 September 2024, Water UK (on behalf of the sector as a whole) also wrote to us to
     set out its views on our draft decisions and to seek clarification on our approach to the
     enforcement of the UWWTR. In doing so, it repeated many of the points and issues raised
     by the water companies themselves. We have also taken these into consideration, along
     with all the other responses we received, in reaching our final decision.

4.   In relation to Thames Water's response to our draft decision, many of the points it raised
     are points that it had previously made in its response to our provisional findings that we
     shared with the company in December 2023 and which we had already considered in
     reaching the draft decision we consulted publicly on in August 2024. Despite this Thames
     Water continues to disagree with various aspects of our investigation and how we have
     characterised its conduct and behaviour in our draft decision. It also disagrees with our
     overall findings in relation to its breaches of UWWTR, section 94 WIA91 and licence
     condition P. Where new evidence has been provided relevant to our assessment, this has
     been reflected in the relevant sections of our final decision. Similarly, where Thames
     Water has, as part of its response, provided updates to figures or updates on the changes
     it has made to its processes and procedures, these have been included in the relevant


286 Anglian Water Services Limited, Consumer Council for Water, Northumbrian Water Limited, South

West Water Limited, Thames Water Utilities Limited, United Utilities Water Limited, Water UK, Wessex
Water Services Limited and Yorkshire Water Services Limited. River Colne Catchment Action Network,
Crane Valley Community Interest Company, Henley Mermaids, Henley Town Council, River Chess
Association, River Partnerships in London, South Tyneside Council, Whitburn Neighbourhood forum
and 13 customers also provided a response.

                                                 190
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

     sections of our final decision. In this Summary of Responses we summarise the key
     comments received from stakeholders and set out our responses and/or explain how we
     have taken these into consideration. For the avoidance of doubt, we have considered all
     of the points raised in the responses in reaching our final decision.

5.   Many of the issues raised by Thames Water and other water companies relate to our
     expectations of what companies are required to do to ensure they are compliant with the
     UWWTR and on the steps that companies should be taking to ensure that compliance.
     Thames Water and others have, for example, considered:

     •   That the position set out in our draft decision in relation to UWWTR compliance is
         unlawful, unreasonable and disproportionate and is inconsistent with existing
         Government policy and the practices of the Environment Agency.
     •   That Ofwat is seeking to impose a new legal standard and enforce this standard
         retrospectively.
     •   That in doing so, Ofwat has failed to consult the industry, or issue guidance to the
         sector outside of our enforcement action and that this is contrary to Ofwat's duties
         under Section 2 WIA91 and is contrary to companies' legitimate expectations.
     •   That Ofwat's approach is inconsistent with the price review process and that Thames
         Water, and other companies, have not been properly funded to meet the standards
         that Ofwat is now seeking to impose.

6.   We address these points in more detail below.

The position in the draft decision is unlawful, unreasonable and
disproportionate and is inconsistent with existing practices

7.   All water company respondents, including Thames Water, claimed that the approach we
     have adopted to assessing compliance is not consistent with existing Government policy
     and the practices of the Environment Agency, most notably the Environmental Permitting
     Regime and the SOAF, which they claimed they have followed and relied on during the
     period covered by our investigation and which they say are intended to demonstrate
     compliance with Regulations 4 and 5 UWWTR. They consider Ofwat has raised no
     objection to companies following these policies and practices until now.

8.   The water companies claimed that as they have been complying with the standards
     required of them, as they understood them to be, it is unreasonable and unlawful for
     Ofwat to have departed from these settled practices and policies in the context of an
     enforcement process. It is also, in their view, unreasonable for Ofwat to seek to impose a
     new legal standard without first consulting with, or issuing guidance to, the sector.

9.   Thames Water and the other companies also challenged Ofwat's remit in relation to the
     enforcement of the UWWTR and argued that, in their view, the issues raised by Ofwat in
     the draft decisions and enforcement orders should be dealt with, and enforced by, the

                                                  191
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

    Environment Agency. This is because the Environment Agency has a duty under
    Regulation 6(2) of the UWWTR to secure compliance with the UWWTR through the setting
    and varying of environmental permits, which are negotiated individually in relation to the
    particular conditions of specific sites. As a result, in their view, Ofwat's duties towards
    the environment are indirect only.

Our response

10. As we have explained in Section 2 of this document, Ofwat has a duty under section 18
    WIA to enforce Regulation 4(2) and 4(4) UWWTR as part of section 94 WIA. This duty is
    independent of the Environment Agency and Ofwat role in relation to the enforcement of,
    and companies' obligations under Regulation 4 UWWTR are also independent of the
    Environmental Permitting Regime (EPR). The Environment Agency is responsible for
    enforcing specific permit requirements under the EPR, whereas we are responsible for
    enforcing Regulation 4 UWWTR and section 94 WIA91.

11. We are aware of the Government's and the Environment Agency's existing policies and
    practices relating to wastewater discharges and permit compliance. We are also aware
    that the companies had, erroneously, believed the SOAF, in particular, to determine the
    limits of their compliance with UWWTR with respect to spills. Ofwat is the enforcing
    authority under Regulation 4 and 5 UWWTR, independent of the Environment Agency,
    which is primarily responsible for enforcing environmental permit requirements. Ofwat
    has a statutory duty to enforce the UWWTR, and companies have their own direct duties
    to comply with the UWWTR. In reaching our decision on penalties we have recognised
    that companies, erroneously, treated the SOAF and permitting regimes as the limit of
    their storm overflow remediation obligations, and only apply penalties where companies'
    failures go beyond these. Our approach is further detailed in Appendix A6. We have used
    our judgement to reflect the fact that the companies worked to a set of pre-existing
    policies, in particular the SOAF, which we took into account in setting the penalties. We
    have also considered this in our assessment of companies' compliance with Condition
    P12.

12. Our final decision document sets out the approach we have taken to applying the
    relevant statutory provisions in practice, which we have done in accordance with the
    provisions themselves and case law. We consulted on this approach when we published
    the proposed decisions and enforcement orders on 6 August 2024. This provided water
    companies and other stakeholders the opportunity to put forward their views on our
    approach, which we have carefully considered. The three companies concerned were
    also able to provide their comments to us on the proposed decisions earlier in the
    investigation and we have similarly carefully considered these comments.




                                                192
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Ofwat's approach risks discriminating against Yorkshire Water, Thames
Water and Northumbrian Water

13. Thames Water, Yorkshire Water and Northumbrian Water claimed that by issuing draft
    decisions against them only, when all companies are subject to the same compliance
    obligations, Ofwat was effectively discriminating against them. As such, they considered
    that requiring the three companies to take action ahead of the rest of the industry risked
    putting them at an unfair disadvantage

Our response

14. We have progressed three of the cases ahead of the others based primarily on practical
    considerations around administrative matters and resourcing. However, all 11 companies
    are under investigation, and we are following the same procedural rules and applying the
    same approach to each company to ensure that they are treated consistently.

Approach to assessing spill compliance

15. All water companies, including Thames Water, told us that they do not recognise our
    interpretation of the UWWTR and disagreed with what they view as a retrospective
    application of new requirements. In particular, the companies objected to our approach
    to assessing spill compliance, especially the use of 20 spills as a threshold for
    investigation. They noted that neither the storm overflows discharge reduction plan
    (SODRP) or the SOAF make reference to a 20 spills standard. They also noted that the 20-
    spill threshold differs from that used by the Environment Agency and that we have not
    previously mentioned the 20 spill standard nor issued any guidance on its application.

16. Thames Water and other water companies have sought to argue that by using a threshold
    of 20 spills as an indicator that spills from storm overflows may be occurring routinely
    and not in exceptional circumstances, that Ofwat has set a new legal standard and that
    this standard is inconsistent with the industry's current approach and with the standard
    that has been applied by the Environment Agency and the Government.

17. Thames Water also argued that our 'novel interpretation' of the UWWTR has been
    imposed without formal consultation or guidance; that it was not invoked in Ofwat’s prior
    investigation of Southern Water; and, that it is at tension with the framework designed to
    discharge water companies' obligations under the UWWTR and in the securing of a
    progressive reduction in storm overflows more generally.

18. Thames Water and other water companies have argued that, rather than use our
    enforcement powers, Ofwat should have consulted with, or issued guidance to, the sector
    on the standard that we expect companies to meet to ensure their compliance with the
    UWWTR. Thames Water has argued, for example, that our failure to do so is inconsistent



                                                193
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

       with our duties under Section 2 WIA91287 which, amongst other things, requires Ofwat to
       have regard to the principles of best regulatory practice. This includes ensuring that our
       regulatory activities are transparent, accountable, proportionate, consistent and
       targeted.

19. Thames Water and the other water companies have also claimed that the industry now
    finds itself in the position that the Government has (through the Environment Agency
    and Defra) established a regulatory baseline (the 60-spill standard under SOAF), which
    we have previously agreed to and endorsed through our price control activities, but is
    now told that it should have been applying a stricter standard that it did not know about
    and could not reasonably have known about.

20. All the water companies have argued that compliance with the UWWTR and the EPR are
    inextricably linked, with the EPR designed and intended to ensure compliance with the
    UWWTR. They claim that by virtue of complying with the Environment Agency's permits
    and by following the SOAF process they are in compliance with the UWWTR, and Ofwat is,
    therefore, incorrect to suggest that companies' obligations under the UWWTR are
    separate from the EPR.

Our response

21. We disagree that we are interpreting the UWWTR in a novel and unprecedented way, or
    that we are seeking to impose a new legal standard. As we explain in Section 2, our
    approach is based on the legislation and relevant caselaw.

22. We agree that the Environment Agency has a duty under Regulation 6(2) UWWTR to
    exercise its permitting functions under the UWWTR in relation to discharges from
    regulated systems so as to limit pollution to receiving waters. However, that duty does not
    supplant or override the obligation owed directly by sewerage undertakers under
    Regulation 4 UWWTR, or Ofwat’s duty to take enforcement action in respect of
    contraventions of that obligation: as Holgate J said in Wildfish at §87, “the EA is not an
    enforcing authority under the WIA 1991 for breaches of the 1994 Regulations”. And in any
    event it is concerned with “the limitation of pollution of receiving waters”, whereas the
    duty in Regulation 4 UWWTR (to ensure, among other things, that treatment plants are
    “designed […], constructed, operated and maintained to ensure sufficient performance
    under all normal local climatic conditions”) is of more general application. The
    companies continue to be directly subject to the obligations under Regulation 4 UWWTR
    notwithstanding the existence of the EPR.




287
      Our duties - Ofwat

                                                    194
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

23. As the body with the duty to enforce Regulation 4(2) and 4(4) UWWTR we cannot defer to
    another regulator's judgment in respect of the exercise of its separate statutory functions
    but must apply Regulation 4(2) and 4(4) consistently with legislation and case law.

24. Nevertheless, on balance, we think the fact that the companies, erroneously considered
    the SOAF and permits to set the limits of their obligations under Regulation 4 UWWTR is a
    factor to take into account when determining what punitive action Ofwat considers it
    appropriate to take. As we explain elsewhere, although we have made findings of past
    breach by reference to the 20 spills indicator, for the purpose of our penalty assessment,
    we have only included those storm overflows that have spilled in excess of 60 times per
    year, which is the upper SOAF threshold. Similarly we have only taken account of
    breaches of Regulation 4(4) which are also inconsistent with permit requirements in
    assessing penalty levels.

25. In our assessment of Condition P12, we have also considered what obligations the
    companies ought to have been aware of in light of previous legal developments and case
    law and regulatory activity.

26. In relation to our investigation into Southern Water (which we concluded in 2019), it is
    important to note that our investigations are case specific. The enforcement
    investigation into Southern Water was a different case with different information and
    data.

27. To the extent that Thames Water has argued that Ofwat should have sought to first
    consult or announce to the industry the legal framework that we have applied in arriving
    at our draft decision, and that a failure to do is contrary to Ofwat's duty under section 2
    WIA91, we note that, as part of Ofwat's established enforcement process, our draft
    decisions in our investigations, have been subject to a consultation during which
    companies 288, and other interested stakeholders, have been be able to provide their
    views. These views have been considered and have been taken into account in reaching
    our final decision in this case.

28. Furthermore, we do not consider that Ofwat, or any other regulator or enforcement body,
    should first have to consult on their interpretation of the law before they can seek to
    enforce it, particularly where that regulatory has a duty to enforce the law when a breach
    has been identified.


288 Ofwat does have a statutory duty under section 22B WIA91 to publish a statement of policy “with

respect to the imposition of penalties and the determination of their amount” and section 22B(5)
WIA91 also provides that Ofwat “shall undertake such consultation as he or it considers appropriate
when preparing or revising his or its statement of policy”. However, there is no equivalent provision in
relation to enforcement policy more generally i.e. Ofwat’s policy as to what issues to prioritise for
investigation and potential enforcement action. The publication of our draft enforcement order under
section 20 WIA91 provides an opportunity for companies and other affected persons to make
representations about it.

                                                   195
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Ofwat's approach conflicts with companies' legitimate expectations.

29. In its response to our draft decision, Thames Water told us that our approach to the
    enforcement of the UWWTR conflicts with its, and the industry’s, legitimate expectations
    with the EPR and following the SOAF process, that by complying with the EPR and by
    following the SOAF process, it was also complying with the UWWTR and therefore that it
    should not be penalised if it had complied with these.

Our response

30. As we explain above, we have based our interpretation of Regulation 4 UWWTR on the
    pre-existing legislation and caselaw dating from 2012 (the subject matter of which
    included Thames Water assets).

The level of Thames Water's non-compliance with Regulation 4 UWWTR
is overstated has not been properly assessed

31. For the reasons outlined above, Thames Water told us that, in its views, it has complied
    with the UWWTR. It also told us that, in any event, in our assessment of whether its sites
    had breached or were in breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR, Ofwat had failed to fully reflect
    the requirements of the UWWTR and SOAF and, as a result, we have likely overstated the
    number of sites in breach and the number of sites included as part of our penalty
    assessment. While we have also addressed many of these points in Sections 3 and 4 of
    this document, we also provide a summary of the main issues raised by Thames Water
    here and our position on those issues.

Ofwat has misinterpreted the scope of the UWWTR

32. Thames Water has argued that the UWWTR is only applicable to agglomerations with a
    population equivalent (PE) of less than 2,000 people and that Ofwat has failed to take the
    necessary step of assessing the extent to which WWTW and storm overflows serve a PE
    equal to or in excess of 2,000.

Our position

33. As acknowledged in Section 2, Regulation 4(2) expressly imposes obligations in respect of
    the provision of collecting systems “for every agglomeration with a population equivalent
    of 2,000 or more”.

34. With respect to Regulation 4(4), Regulation 5 sets minimum treatment requirements
    according to the size of population served by the relevant WWTW. Regulation 5(7)
    explains that, notwithstanding the above, appropriate treatment should be provided for
    all agglomerations.



                                                196
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

35. In relation to our assessment of Thames Water's breaches under Regulation 4(2), as we
    have explained in our draft decision, and again in this final decision, our finding of
    breach relates not to the number of high spilling storm overflows on its network that the
    company failed to deal with as part of the SOAF process, but rather to the company's
    failure to monitor and manage its assets to ensure that it was complying with the UWWTR
    – as evidenced by the fact that in 2022 Thames Water included over 300 network storm
    overflows in its annual EDM return to the Environment Agency. These overflows were
    unmonitored (and so the true scale of spills from Thames Water's network storm
    overflows is likely to have been higher than recorded) and many were also unpermitted.

Ofwat has failed to understand how the BTKNEEC test is applied

36. A number of companies claimed that Ofwat’s position, that they should have conducted
    BTKNEEC assessments for high spilling overflows, runs contrary to previous sectoral
    guidance and, in particular, to the approach used under SOAF. They claim that BTKNEEC
    is an objective standard, with the test being not whether a company has applied
    BTKNEEC but whether, in objective terms, a non-exceptional discharge can be justified
    by cost-benefit analysis that satisfies BTKNEEC.

37. This argument takes two different forms. The first is that Ofwat cannot conclude that
    there has been a breach in respect of a particular site without considering BTKNEEC
    issues. The second is that Ofwat cannot conclude that there has been a breach in
    respect of a particular site unless it concludes on the balance of probabilities that there
    is a BTKNEEC-compliant solution that could be adopted at that site but has not been
    adopted.

Our position

38. Ofwat agrees that a site is only operating in breach of Regulation 4(2) UWWTR if it is both
    high spilling and there is no unimplemented BTKNEEC consistent remedy available to
    improve the position. However, Regulation 4(2) UWWTR also clearly states that companies
    must ensure that they provide collecting systems for the specified agglomerations which
    meet the requirements of Schedule 2 UWWTR including as to the limitation of pollution
    from storm overflows consistent with BTKNEEC. The ECJ made clear that this means that
    storm overflows should only spill in exceptional circumstances unless it would be
    inconsistent with BTKNEEC for those spills to be remedied, and that where BTKNEEC is
    relied upon this should be evidenced and not just asserted. If companies become aware
    that any of their storm overflows are spilling outside exceptional circumstances, their
    obligations under Regulation 4(2) UWWTR therefore require them to ensure that they are
    nevertheless operating consistently with BTKNEEC and to take remedial steps if they are
    not.




                                                197
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Burden of proof and evidence

39. Thames Water also claimed that in our approach to UWWTR, we had improperly reversed
    the burden of proof onto it for evidencing environmental harm, BTKNEEC or exceptional
    circumstance.

Our position

40. Our approach does not reverse the burden of proof with respect to BTKNEEC. Regulation 4
    UWWTR requires the companies to ensure that they comply with BTKNEEC in the way they
    design, construct and maintain their collecting systems in non-exceptional
    circumstances. If there are non-exceptional spills, the companies are also required to
    ensure that they comply with BTKNEEC in considering how to address them.

41. In any event, the companies hold the evidence relevant to their assessment of
    environmental harm and BTKNEEC, which we note they were also required to conduct
    upon reaching the spill thresholds under the SOAF, and we have requested and
    considered evidence held by the companies relating to BTKNEEC as well as environmental
    harm in the course of our investigation.

Our assessment of sites where high spills are due to infiltration

42. In its response to our draft decision, Thames Water also challenged our findings on the
    number of its sites which had spilled more than 60 times due to asset maintenance
    reasons and claimed that we had "likely overstated" the number of its sites that we had
    found to have breached Regulation 4 UWWTR in our penalty assessment. This was
    because we had not taken into account the fact that under SOAF, where the reason for
    the high spills was identified as being due to infiltration (which is categorised under
    asset maintenance), it is recognised that it may take longer than a year to resolve the
    root cause of the spills.

Our position

43. We have considered this point and, as noted in Sections 3 and 4 of this document, we
    sought additional information from Thames Water on the sites where infiltration was
    identified as the reason the site was triggered for investigation under SOAF and on the
    company's plans to address issues at those sites. We have taken this additional evidence
    into account and have revised our assessment of the number of sites we have included as
    part of our penalty assessment. Our updated assessment is explained in Section 4.




                                                198
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Alleged inconsistency in how remedial actions are treated as part of Ofwat's
assessment of breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR

44. As explained in Section 4, under SOAF where the root cause of a high spill is identified as
    being hydraulic capacity, further investigation is required to assess whether the spill has
    resulted in environmental harm and if a cost beneficial solutions exist to resolve the
    cause of the spill. A failure to carry out further investigation is considered to be a breach
    of Regulation 4 UWWTR. Where no cost beneficial solution is identified or the
    investigation is still ongoing (within reasonable timescales), the site is excluded from
    both the breach assessment and the penalty assessment (as it is not yet known whether
    a cost beneficial solution exists). Where a cost beneficial solution has been identified, the
    site is included in our breach assessment but is excluded from our penalty assessment –
    if these is evidence that cost beneficial solution or remedial action is being implemented
    or will be implemented within a reasonable timescales.

45. In its response to our draft decision, Thames Water welcomed our approach to assessing
    sites where hydraulic capacity was identified as the reason for the high spills under the
    SOAF process but claimed that Ofwat appeared to adopt a different, and inconsistent,
    approach when considering the remedial action that the company was taking, or was
    planning to take, outside of the SOAF process. In particular, it noted that we had not
    adopted the same approach in relation to its remedial work to address FFT, DWF and
    storm tank capacity issues at its 157 "sites of concern" under its Waste Asset Assurance
    Programme (WAAP) or WINEP. In Thames Water's view, these programmes are also steps
    it is taking to ensure its assets are maintained and operated according to BTKNEEC in
    compliance with the UWWTR and therefore, these sites should also be considered not to
    be in breach.

Our response

46. We disagree with Thames Water's claims that we are acting inconsistently in the way in
    which we are treating sites with remediation plans in our breach and penalty
    assessments. We recognise that the companies, wrongly, considered that adherence to
    the SOAF process set the limits of what was required under the UWWTR in relation to
    storm overflows and have taken those regulatory expectations into account when
    assessing penalties. In terms of breach, where a site is spilling outside exceptional
    circumstances, the company is required to assess whether remedial action needs to be
    taken consistent with BTKNEEC. If it is in the process, diligently and expeditiously, of
    carrying out that investigation, it is fulfilling its duty to ensure the operation of its
    network consistent with BTKNEEC.

47. If it transpires that there are improvements that are available consistent with BTKNEEC
    (whether operational, maintenance or improvements to hydraulic capacity), its network
    will not be operating consistently with the UWWTR until those improvements have been
    implemented. Similarly, where hydraulic capacity issues have been identified at a WWTW

                                                199
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

    that require remediation in order for the site to be compliant with the UWWTR and that
    remediation has not been implemented, the site will be non-compliant until that
    remediation has occurred.

The proposed penalty is excessive, unfair and unreasonable, lacks
adequate justification, and is not consistent with past precedent.

48. In its response to our draft decision, Thames Water told us that it does not accept that it
    had breached (and in some cases, is continuing to breach) the UWWTR, section 94 WIA91
    and Condition P of its Licence. On that basis, it argued, that Ofwat’s proposed penalty is
    unfounded, and in any event wholly disproportionate in light of the level of penalties in its
    previous enforcement cases. Similar arguments were also put forward by both Yorkshire
    Water and Northumbrian Water in their responses to their respective draft decisions.

Our position

49. In our draft decision and in our final decision we have set out the evidence that we have
    relied on in our assessment of whether Thames Water has breached UWWTR, section 94
    WIA91 and Condition P of its licence. Given the scale, scope and duration of the issues
    identified during the course of our investigation into Thames Water's management of its
    wastewater treatment assets, we have also explained the reasons why we consider a
    significant penalty is appropriate in this case.

50. In arriving at our penalty assessment, we have followed our published policy statement
    and have sought to adopt a consistent approach across all our investigations. However,
    the level of penalties that Ofwat can impose is a matter of regulatory discretion and
    whilst we have taken account of precedents (including our investigation into Southern
    Water), we are not bound by our previous decisions. Therefore, we assess each of our
    enforcement cases based on the specific circumstances of that case and while the levels
    of penalties in previous cases may provide guidance, they are not determinative of our
    future decisions.

51. Similarly, while Thames Water and other companies have sought to argue that the
    penalty in our current investigations is disproportionate in light of the penalty imposed
    on Southern Water in that case, we again stress that we consider each case individually.

There is a lack of transparency as to how the penalties have been
calculated

52. Thames Water, Yorkshire Water and Northumbrian Water have also claimed that there is
    a lack of transparency as to how the penalties have been calculated and that we have not
    explained adequately how the starting penalty in these decision was reached or how the
    mitigating and aggravating factors have been taken into account.



                                                200
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

Our response

53. Whilst we consider each investigation on a case-by-case basis, and whilst we have
    discretion about the level of penalties to impose, we have also sought to apply our
    published policy consistently across all our investigations.

54. In Section 6 we have explained in detail the factors that we have taken into account in
    arriving at our starting penalty in this case and the reasons for our assessment. We have
    also explained our assessment of all the relevant aggravating and mitigating factors in
    this case.

55. We have additionally provided Thames Water and other companies with an overview of
    the broad framework we have used to guide the decisions we have made on the
    appropriate penalty levels for all the companies that are subject to our wastewater
    investigations. This is included at Appendix A7.


Relevant revenue in the penalty calculation

56. In addition to repeating their arguments that the proposed penalties are excessive,
    disproportionate and inconsistent with those imposed in previous cases, Thames Water
    and a number of other water companies have raised concerns about the revenue streams
    that we have included as "relevant turnover" for the purposes of the penalty assessment.
    For example, Thames Water argued that retail revenue should be excluded from the
    turnover figure, whilst Yorkshire Water considered that revenue associated with
    bioresources should be excluded.

Our response

57. Relevant turnover is determined in accordance with the Water Industry (Determination of
    Turnover for Penalties) Order 2005 (Penalties Order), which in broad terms, defines it as
    revenue from "the provision of goods and services in the course of the [company's]
    regulated activities in respect of which the penalty is imposed". "Regulated activities" of a
    sewerage undertaker is defined as "its functions as a sewerage undertaker". We are
    satisfied that the revenues from the provision of bioresource services as well as a
    proportion of a company's retail revenues 289 can be reasonably considered to form part of
    the companies' functions as sewerage undertakers.




289
   As Thames Water's reported revenues from retail wastewater services relate to both water and
wastewater services, we have estimated the proportion for wastewater services on the basis of the
ratio of Wastewater Network+ revenues to Water Network+ revenues.

                                                 201
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

The enforcement order is not sufficiently clear as to what is required and by
when

58. Thames Water, Yorkshire Water and Northumbrian Water raised concerns about the
    clarity of the proposed enforcement order which accompanied our draft decisions. In
    particular, the companies argued that the order was unclear on the use of the 20 spills
    threshold; on the timeframe for delivery of a number of requirements referred to in the
    order; and on some of the terminology used.

Our response

59. While we consider that the draft enforcement was clear as to our expectations of the
    companies, in light of the comments received we have updated the enforcement order.

Companies have not previously been funded to carry out all the investigations
and to take the necessary remedial action required under the enforcement
order

60. In its response to our draft decision, Thames Water told us that the regulatory standard
    imposed by the proposed Enforcement Order with respect to the UWWTR is not funded,
    exceeds the requirements of the Environmental Permitting Regime, and cuts across the
    objective of the SODRP to secure a progressive multi-amp reduction in discharges. It also
    told us that it is inconsistent with Ofwat’s duties under section 2 WIA91 (to ensure the
    financing of the proper carrying out of the company's functions, the long-term resilience
    of the company's provision of sewerage services (including by promoting appropriate
    long-term planning and investment) and to act with regards to transparency,
    accountability, proportionality and consistency).

61. A number of other companies made similar points to those raised by Thames Water and
    argued that they had not previously been funded to carry out all the required
    investigations referred to in the enforcement order and to take the necessary remedial
    action. They also sought greater clarity over how the enforcement orders will work with
    future funding requirements.

62. Some companies (for example, Yorkshire Water and Anglian Water) also argued that
    there is a clear contradiction between our expectations as set out in the enforcement
    order and the price review process and pointed out that while we recognise that
    considerable funding is required to identify and investigate high spilling sites, we have
    failed to address the tension between our expectations on companies, the funding
    required to meet those expectations, and the established process for accessing that
    funding.

63. Moreover, a number of water companies, including Thames Water, sought to argue that
    many of the alleged failures that we identified as part of our investigations can be

                                                202
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

       explained by the process that Ofwat, alongside the water industry, have followed for
       allocating funding for investigating and addressing issues; namely, consistent with the
       WINEP process followed at PR19, where issues are identified in one AMP and funding is
       sought such that these can be investigated further and/or remediated in the next AMP.

64. Finally, given the cost of complying with the standards included in our enforcement order
    (that is, the 20 spills threshold) Thames Water and a number of other water companies
    (for example, Yorkshire Water and Water UK) again questioned whether we had
    considered whether this was consistent with Ofwat's duty under section 2 WIA91 to
    ensure that companies are able to finance the proper carrying out of their functions.

Our response

65. As noted previously, in our enforcement order, we are not seeking to impose any new
    requirements on companies, but are enforcing pre-existing provisions in accordance
    with caselaw. It is for companies to submit business plans under the price control which
    ensure that they are able to comply with their legal obligations..

66. We do, however, recognise the expectations set by the SOAF and have not sought to
    penalise companies, where they have been properly following the SOAF process, by
    excluding those sites from our penalty calculations. Our final determinations for PR24
    explain the funding available for wastewater remediation under the price control 290.

Our findings in relation to Thames Water's compliance with section 94 WIA91

67. Thames Water told us that it did not accept that it had breached its duties under section
    94 of the WIA91 and denied that any contravention is ongoing. It claimed that our draft
    decision in this respect relied largely upon a flawed interpretation of the UWWTR and that
    we had failed to substantiate that it had breached section 94 as a stand-alone breach.

68. It argued that Ofwat is required, as set out in the 2019 Southern Water penalty decision,
    to assess whether there has been systemic failure with the company’s obligations and
    whether Thames Water's actions were the actions to be expected of a reasonable
    company. In its view, we have not considered adequately whether Thames Water failed to
    act reasonably in the circumstances and have, therefore, in its view, failed to meet the
    legal test for a finding of breach under section 94 WIA91.

69. Thames Water claimed that it had, in fact, acted reasonably in the circumstances
    according to best industry standards and in the absence of any guidance from Ofwat on
    how it proposed to interpret and enforce Regulation 4 of the UWWTR. It also claimed that
    it had relied on its legitimate expectation that compliance with the EPR and SODRP
    would mean compliance with the UWWTR and had sought funding under the various


290
      Thames Water's Final Determination for PR24.

                                                     203
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

      price reviews on this basis. Given these circumstances, therefore, it could not have been
      apparent to any reasonable company that it was in breach of these requirements.

Our response

  70. We disagree that our interpretation or the UWWTR is flawed for the reasons explained
      previously. We have also addressed the point about companies' legitimate expectations
      above.

  71. As explained in our draft decision document and as set out again in Section 2 of this final
      decision document, each breach of Regulation 4 UWWTR itself constitutes a breach of
      section 94 WIA91. We have applied the appropriate legal test in our findings relating to
      breach of section 94 WIA91.

  72. In reaching our findings in relation to the extent to which the company has complied,
      and continues to comply with, its obligations under section 94, we have based our
      assessment on the magnitude and extent of Thames Water's failures under the UWWTR
      which point to a systemic failure to make appropriate provision for effectually dealing
      with the contents of sewers and constitutes an ongoing breach of section 94 WIA91. In
      reaching our findings, we have considered the actions that a reasonable company would
      take.

  Our findings in relation to Thames Water's compliance with Condition P

  73. In its response to our draft decision Thames Water told us that it had carefully considered
      Ofwat’s draft decision and whilst it accepted that its governance processes could have
      been better, it did not accept that these fell below the standards required by Condition P
      such that it had breached Condition P historically, nor did it accept that any such breach
      is ongoing.

  74. In respect of our finding of historic breach of Condition P, Thames Water denied any
      intimation that it had failed to spend appropriately on compliance or that it had
      improperly preferred areas of the business which were subject to greater regulatory
      scrutiny. It noted that whilst its Board must make challenging decisions on compliance,
      it had spent all of its PR14 allowance in relation to its wastewater activities in AMP6 and
      was expected to have overspent relative to its PR19 allowance for AMP7.

  75. Thames Water also rejected any suggestion that it should have met any alleged
      compliance funding gap within AMP6 and AMP7 with shareholder funds or could have
      realistically secured more in-AMP funding from Ofwat within this period. It pointed to the
      fact that its shareholders had already injected significant new equity into the business
      and had received no external dividend for many years. It again reiterated its view that the
      regulatory standard included in the draft decision represents a new legal standard which



                                                  204
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

    Thames Water and its shareholders were not aware of and could not expected to bear
    retrospectively.

76. In relation to any continuing breach, it pointed to the enhancements it had made as part
    of its Turnaround Plan and the changes to its governance processes to improve its
    resources and systems of planning and internal control, including the advances in
    monitoring and data assessment, institutionalised training and cultural programmes and
    enhanced governance processes. These changes, in Thames Water's view, indicated that
    even if the company had breached Condition P in the past, there is no ongoing breach.

Our response

77. Under licence Condition P, companies are required to ensure that they have the
    necessary processes in place to enable them to meet all their regulatory obligations and
    to assure Ofwat annually that they have sufficient resources to enable them to do so.

78. Based on the evidence that we have seen, we have concluded that, from at least March
    2017, Thames Water failed to act in the manner best calculated to ensure it had adequate
    financial and management resources and systems of planning and internal control in
    place to carry out its regulated activities, and in particular to manage and effectively
    operate its WWTW and networks to meet their environmental obligations under their
    permits, the UWWTR and section 94 WIA91.

79. As explained in our draft decision and again in this final decision document, we would
    have expected a company to have in place adequate systems and controls in order to
    prevent, identify and address the issues of the type outlined in this case. As we also
    explained it is clear from the company's own compliance risk assessments that that the
    company was aware that it had significant compliance risks across numerous sites and
    yet, did not respond with any real urgency to address them. These risks related not to any
    new standard that Thames Water alleges that Ofwat is now seeking to enforce (and which
    it therefore could not be expected to have complied with), but rather a failure to comply
    with its existing environmental permits.

80. We therefore remain of the view that Thames Water neglected its obligations in this case.
    The Board of Thames Water placed reliance on a variety of teams and systems to
    understand the performance of its WWTW and networks. These systems and processes
    were ineffective and focused on a relatively narrow set of indicators or parameters which
    fed into the company's EPA report or were relevant to the company's PCs and ODIs. As a
    result, the Board did not seek sufficient information to adequately assure itself, or Ofwat
    via its annual certificate, as to the company's full compliance position, nor to sufficiently
    scrutinise performance in order to drive improvements and secure compliance.

81. Thames Water has challenged our assessment that its management team and Board did
    not receive, nor seek, sufficient information and assurance on the operational

                                                205
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

    performance of the company’s wastewater assets and their compliance with relevant
    legal obligations. It also rejected any suggestion that it had improperly assured Ofwat in
    relation to the adequacy of its resources and systems of planning and internal control in
    its RFC and its RCS. In its view, the company has, at all time, followed Ofwat guidance in
    relation to the preparation of the RFC and has made suitable disclosures – including
    disclosures relating to permit compliance in its RFC for 2021 -2022 and 2022-23.

82. We have set out the evidence we have relied on in reaching our findings in relation to
    Thames Water's compliance with Condition P in Sections 3 and 4. This evidence is drawn
    mainly from Thames Water's Board papers and minutes and, in our assessment, indicates
    that, until relatively recently, the focus of the management team and Board was on
    metrics relevant to the Environment Agency's EPA and the company's PCs and ODIs under
    the price control and not on its wider regulatory obligations. Despite Thames Water's
    challenge, our findings in relation to the limited nature of the information being
    presented to, and discussed by Board, also mirrors the findings of the company's own
    internal audit reports which also highlighted the risks arising from the company's narrow
    focus on a limited number of performance indicators and metrics.

83. Similarly, in relation to Thames Water's RFCs, while we recognise that the company has
    now taken steps to report on risks associated with its wider regulatory obligations, it only
    began to do so for the 2021-22 RFC – which post-dates the opening of our investigation.
    Prior to that, and despite the compliance risks which had been identified under the
    company's G2G programme, these were not referred to in earlier RFCs.

84. We welcome the steps that Thames Water has taken/is taking to improve its processes,
    oversight and governance. However, the fact that the company considers that these
    changes are needed also serves to underline the fact that there were deficiencies in its
    previous processes and systems. It is also too early to conclude with any degree of
    confidence that the changes that Thames Water has now put in place are sufficient to
    enable us to conclude that there is no ongoing breach of Condition P. This is because of
    the fact that the company appears to be still uncovering new potential issues and its
    understanding of the steps that it needs to take, and the investment that this will
    require, is still evolving.

85. Finally, in relation to Thames Water's challenge that as it spent all the funds it was
    allocated for its wastewater activities under the price review process in AMP6 and is
    expected to have overspent in AMP7, that it had acted as a reasonable company within
    the confines of the price review process and the need to balance competing priorities
    with a limited budget. We disagree. As explained in our draft decision and as repeated in
    this final decision, it is our assessment that Thames Water failed to act with sufficient
    urgency to address known compliance risks across its wastewater network, that is, it
    failed to act to ensure its compliance with its existing environmental permit conditions.
    Companies, including Thames Water, were funded to meet these permit conditions as
    part of the price review process and also assured us annually that they had sufficient

                                                206
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

      resources to enable them to do so. Despite this, during the course of our investigation,
      Thames Water identified 157 sites, or two thirds of its sites with permits or TDCs, which
      had failed to meet their FFT permit conditions. Many of its sites were also potentially non-
      compliant in relation to DWF and storm tank capacity. Moreover, Thames Water has
      claimed that had it requested additional funds to enable it to address known compliance
      issues more rapidly, the likelihood is that Ofwat would have rejected that request.
      Leaving aside this unsubstantiated assertion, Thames Water itself has admitted that its
      previous business plans and funding were based upon meeting compliance with existing
      permits. Moreover, even when opportunities did arise for companies to access additional
      investment, for example via the Green Recovery Programme and Accelerated
      Infrastructure Delivery Project, Thames Water failed to take advantage of them. In our
      view, this indicates a failure by the company to prioritise spending on compliance with
      the full range of its legal and regulatory obligations. While Thames Water has challenged
      our assessment, again, these issues and risks had been flagged by its own internal
      reports and reviews – and yet it failed to act. In the 2019 review of the company's
      compliance regime, which was undertaken following the publication of our findings in
      the Southern Water case, for example, it noted that "the governance behind capital
      spend and investment should formally consider and prioritise compliance requirements
      moving forward". This recommendation was in turn based on the fact that "compliance
      risks and resilience for all aspects of permits were not considered as a high priority in
      decisions on capital investment spend and suggested that, in order to mitigate these
      risks, the company's approach to risk prioritisation should be considered; that
      compliance issues should be ranked higher; and that awareness of all compliance
      obligations should be increased".

Key issues raised by other respondents

86. In the preceding sections, we have addressed the key themes and issues which were
    raised by Thames Water and a number of other water companies. In the following section
    we provide an overview of the issues raised by other respondents to our consultation.

Fines should be used to remedy problems in the areas affected by the
conduct

87. A number of respondents 291 called for any fines imposed to be used for the benefit of the
    local areas affected by the breaches we have identified. Where the money should be paid
    and who should be responsible for managing how it is spent varied from respondent to
    respondent (generally based on their local interests), but a common theme was that the
    fines should not simply be paid into HMT's Consolidated Fund.




  Including CCW, River Colne Catchment Area Network, River Chess Association, River Partnerships in
291

London and several members of the public.

                                                  207
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

88. While we acknowledge the points being made by respondents, it is also important to note
    that Ofwat does not have control over where the penalties we impose are paid to. The
    requirement for financial penalties to be paid into HM Treasury's Consolidated Fund is a
    statutory requirement set out in section 22A(9) WIA91. We are therefore not in a position
    to determine that the penalty be paid elsewhere or how the money is subsequently used.

Fines should not lead to increased customer bills or existing projects being
cancelled

89. Several community groups and members of the public raised concerns that the fines
    imposed would simply be passed on to customers in the form of higher bills and were
    clear that this should not be permitted. Others raised concerns that existing and planned
    work programmes of the water companies (including those related to the environment)
    might be impacted by the drive for cost savings that they felt would likely follow any
    penalty. They called for these programmes to be protected from the cost savings.

90. Our policy is clear that any penalties should be funded by companies and their
    shareholders and not through customer bills. We have made it clear in our decisions for
    PR24 that companies have already been funded to meet existing environmental permit
    limits through previous price controls and so, customers will not be expected to pay twice
    for any remedial work that companies are required to undertake. Where companies are
    required to go beyond existing permit conditions to meet the requirements of our
    enforcement order, however, we will consider requests for funding as part of case for
    enhanced expenditure in price reviews.

Penalties are insufficient – special administration and/or director fines
should be used

91. Several respondents called for us to petition the court to place Thames Water into special
    administration as a result of its repeated contraventions and/or for company directors or
    boards to be personally held to account by way of fines or criminal prosecution.

92. The company's wastewater performance is part of our wider monitoring of the company's
    performance, to inform any further regulatory action is required.

Infiltration is the major cause of problems that needs to be addressed

93. Several community groups 292 expressed the view that groundwater ingress and
    infiltration is the major problem behind spills. They suggested that improving storage
    capacity will not resolve this problem and that replacing, changing the design or lining
    sewers is the only solution. Some surprise was expressed at how little the impact of
    infiltration was discussed in the decision documents. One member of the public claimed


292
      River Colne Catchment Area Network and River Chess Association.

                                                   208
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

       that the deregulation of the building industry resulted in some sewers being
       misconnected, adding to the infiltration problems.

94. The degree to which infiltration is a problem varies between water companies. As noted
    previously in this document, Thames Water has provided us with information on those
    sites where infiltration was identified as the reason for high spills from its storm
    overflows, as well as details on the plans it has developed to address infiltration. This
    information has been taken into account in our assessment.

Concerns about the strength of Environment Agency engagement with
companies

95. One community group 293 raised concern about the number of critically important
    documents that are being drafted or amended "behind closed doors", making particular
    reference to SOAF and Temporary Discharge Permits that were agreed between the
    Environment Agency and water companies. It was suggested that these should be
    reopened with input from all stakeholders. We note that the Environment Agency recently
    completed a public consultation on a revised SOAF

96. Another group 294 raised concern about the requirement in the proposed enforcement
    order (requirement 3d) for companies to work with the Environment Agency to agree a
    protocol for assessing the impact of discharges to coastal waters and lakes (these are not
    currently covered by SOAF). They noted that their experience in relation to Whitburn
    gives them little confidence that this will be carried out in a timely manner and that it
    will not be controlled by Northumbrian Water to result in an outcome that favours them –
    they would like assurances around this.

97. We note that the way in which the Environment Agency makes policy decision is outside
    of Ofwat's remit and outside the scope of this consultation. However, we have been
    working closely with the Environment Agency on its revised SOAF to ensure our
    expectations are aligned in terms of how such processes reflect the UWWTR obligations.




293
      River Chess Association
294
      Whitburn Neighbourhood Forum

                                                   209
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

A3: List of potentially non-compliant sites by category
List of 137 sites which are potentially non-compliant with FFT permit conditions
using 2021 data – by category (* denotes sites with TDCs)

Underperforming sites (88)
 Abingdon
 Aldermaston (<2000 PE) 295
 Appleton
 Arborfield
 Ascot
 Aston Le Walls (<2000 PE)
 Barkway (<2000 PE)
 Beckton
 Bentley
 Bracknell
 Brentwood
 Buntingford
 Burghfield
 Caddington
 Carterton
 Chalgrove
 Chapel Row (<2000 PE)
 Charlbury
 Chipping Warden (<2000 PE)
 Compton (Berks) (<2000 PE)
 Cranleigh
 Crawley
 Crondall (<2000 PE)
 Crossness
 Dagnall (<2000 PE)
 Deephams
 East Shefford
 Fleet
 Fyfield (<2000 PE)
 Grendon Underwood (<2000 PE)
 Guildford
 Hampstead Norreys (<2000 PE)
 Haslemere




295
   As part of its September 2024 response to the consultation on our draft decision, Thames Water also
provided a list of its sites of concern with less than 2,000 Population Equivalent (PE). It had previously
told us that 35 of the 157 sites of concern served a population less than 2,000 but following a further
assessment of PE data for its 2024 Annual Report it had revised this number to 48. Thames Water also
told us that this includes Chilton Foliat WWTW, which is now closed (with all flows pumped to the
Hungerford catchment, via a new 2km pipeline).


                                                   210
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

Hatfield Heath
Hockford (Pirbright)
Hogsmill
Hook Norton
Horley (Oxon) (<2000 PE)
Horley (Surrey)
Horton-cum-Studley (<2000 PE)
Hungerford
Kingsclere
Kingston Bagpuize
Leatherhead
Little Compton (<2000 PE)
Long Reach
Luton (East Hyde)
Maple Lodge)
Markyate
Merstham
Middleton Cheney
Mogden
Stratfield Mortimer
North Weald
Northleach (<2000 PE)
Purton
Reading
Reigate (Earlswood)
Riverside
Selborne (<2000 PE)
Shabbington (<2000 PE)
Sherfield-on-Loddon
Shutford (<2000 PE)
Silchester
South Leigh (<2000 PE)
Stansted Mountfitchet
Stewkley (<2000 PE)
Therfield (<2000 PE)
Waddesdon
Washwater
Whitwell (<2000 PE)
Wingrave (<2000 PE)
Woking
Woodstock
Worminghall
Camberley *
Chobham *
Forest Hill * (<2000 PE)
Gerrards Cross *
Harpenden *
Hatfield (Mill Green) *
Kintbury *


                                                  211
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

Milton-Under-Wychwood *
Oxford *
Takeley *
Theydon Bois *
Wisley *
Wokingham *


Inconsistent performance (29)
Aldershot
Aylesbury
Bloxham
Bordon
Chertsey
Chinnor
Chipping Norton
Church Hanborough
Cottered (<2000 PE)
Cricklade
Cropredy (<2000 PE)
Cuddington (<2000 PE)
Dorking
Drayton
Esher
Faringdon
Ludgershall (<2000 PE)
Princes Risborough
Stone
Swindon (Rodbourne)
Thame
Thornwood (<2000 PE)
Wanborough
Warmington (<2000 PE)
Bucklebury * (<2000 PE)
Cassington *
Culworth * (<2000 PE)
Newbury *
Sandhurst *


Marginal under-performance (11)
Bicester
Boddington (<2000 PE)
Burstow
Eydon (<2000 PE)
Finstock
Middle Barton (<2000 PE)
Stanton Harcourt (<2000 PE)
Tetsworth (<2000 PE)
Marsh Gibbon *

                                                  212
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

 South Moreton * (<2000 PE)
 Uffington * (<2000 PE)


Assessment skewed (9)
 Basingstoke
 Beenham (<2000 PE)
 Chilton Foliat (<2000 PE)
 Clanfield (<2000 PE)
 Farnborough (North) (<2000 PE)
 Hartley Wintney
 Little Marlow
 Wargrave
 Windsor *


List of 20 sites which are potentially non-compliant with FFT permit conditions
using 2020 data but compliant using 2021 – by category.
(* denotes sites with TDCs)
 Dorchester                              Assessment Skewed
 Shamley Green                           Assessment Skewed
 White Roding (<2000 PE)                 Assessment Skewed
 Brickendon (<2000 PE)                   Inconsistant Performance
 Culham                                  Inconsistant Performance
 Greatworth (<2000 PE)                   Inconsistant Performance
 Haddenham                               Inconsistant Performance
 Holmwood                                Inconsistant Performance
 Lightwater                              Inconsistant Performance
 Little Hallingbury (<2000 PE)           Inconsistant Performance
 Ramsbury                                Inconsistant Performance
 Standon                                 Inconsistant Performance
 Broadwell *                             Inconsistant Performance
 Easthampstead Park *                    Inconsistant Performance
 Sonning Common *                        Inconsistant Performance
 Bletchingdon (<2000 PE)                 Marginal Underperforming
 Marlborough                             Marginal Underperforming
 Farnham *                               Marginal Underperforming
 Pangbourne                              Marginal Underperforming
 Maidenhead *                            Marginal Underperforming




                                                 213
          Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                              on Thames Water

A4: List of sites covered by Compliance First plan (104
sites of concern based on 2020 data)
Compliance First Plan (104 Sites)
                     WWTW                                    Plan to resolve               Number of
                                                                                              sites
Ashridge (Wokingham)                           Already resolved                                        15

Bicester                                       Already resolved
Bletchingdon                                   Already resolved
Broadwell                                      Already resolved
Chersey                                        Already resolved
Chobham                                        Already resolved
East Hyde                                      Already resolved
Eydon                                          Already resolved
Farnham                                        Already resolved
Lightwater (Level 1)                           Already resolved
Marsh Gibbon                                   Already resolved
North Weald                                    Already resolved
Stansted Mountfitchet                          Already resolved
Takeley                                        Already resolved
Warmington                                     Already resolved


Bordon                                         Go to Green                                            25

Bracknell                                      Go to Green
Camberley                                      Go to Green
Chilton Foliat                                 Go to Green
Chipping Norton                                Go to Green
Church Hanborough                              Go to Green
Cranleigh                                      Go to Green
Crondall                                       Go to Green
Dorchester                                     Go to Green
Dorking                                        Go to Green
Easthampstead Park                             Go to Green
Fyfield                                        Go to Green
Guildford                                      Go to Green
Harpenden                                      Go to Green
Haslemere                                      Go to Green
Kintbury                                       Go to Green
Marlborough                                    Go to Green
Mill Green                                     Go to Green
Newbury                                        Go to Green
Northleach                                     Go to Green


                                                   214
         Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                             on Thames Water

                     WWTW                                   Plan to resolve               Number of
                                                                                             sites
Pangbourne                                    Go to Green
Riverside (Level ST 6)                        Go to Green
Shutford                                      Go to Green
Thame                                         Go to Green
Thornwood                                     Go to Green


Little Hallingbury                            Other Fixes                                             2

Mogden                                        Other Fixes


Appleton                                      WINEP                                                   11

Bentley                                       WINEP
Bloxham                                       WINEP
Burstow                                       WINEP
Earlswood                                     WINEP
Fleet                                         WINEP
Leatherhead                                   WINEP
Milton Under Wychwood                         WINEP
Oxford                                        WINEP
Ramsbury                                      WINEP
Woking                                        WINEP


Aldermaston                                   Non-treatment/Operational Issues                        31

Beenham                                       Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Brickendon                                    Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Burghfield                                    Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Cassington                                    Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Compton                                       Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Greatworth                                    Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Haddenham                                     Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Hatfield Heath                                Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Holmwood                                      Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Hook Norton                                   Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Horley (Surrey)                               Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Kingston Bagpuize                             Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Longreach                                     Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Maidenhead                                    Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Merstham (Level 1)                            Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Mortimer (Stratfield)                         Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Sandhurst                                     Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Shabbington                                   Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Shamley Green                                 Non-treatment/Operational Issues

                                                  215
        Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                            on Thames Water

                   WWTW                                  Plan to resolve                 Number of
                                                                                            sites
Sonning Common                               Non-treatment/Operational Issues
South Leigh                                  Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Standon                                      Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Stanton Harcourt                             Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Stone                                        Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Therfield                                    Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Theydon Bois                                 Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Uffington                                    Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Waddesdon                                    Non-treatment/Operational Issues
Wanborough                                   Non-treatment/Operational Issues
White Roding                                 Non-treatment/Operational Issues


Chalgrove                                    Treatment Resilience                                   10

Chapel Row                                   Treatment Resilience
Cottered                                     Treatment Resilience
Culham                                       Treatment Resilience
Finstock                                     Treatment Resilience
Hampstead Norreys                            Treatment Resilience
Horley (Oxfordshire)                         Treatment Resilience
Kingsclere                                   Treatment Resilience
Stewkley                                     Treatment Resilience
Wingrave                                     Treatment Resilience


Abingdon                                     AMP8                                                   10

Cropredy                                     AMP8
Esher                                        AMP8
Hogsmill                                     AMP8
Horton Cum Studley                           AMP8
Little Marlow                                AMP8
Maple Lodge                                  AMP8
Middleton Cheney                             AMP8
Sherfield on Loddon                          AMP8
Silchester                                   AMP8




                                                 216
      Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                          on Thames Water

A5: List of storm overflows that spilled 20 or more times
in 2021 and those that spilled more than 60 times.
Storm overflows at WWTW (Sites spilling >60 times are shaded)
                                                     Total Spills           Counted Spills
                                                     Duration Hrs

ABBESS RODING                                                      754.15                 92
ABINGDON                                                          380.95                  26
ALDERMASTON                                                        577.27                 87
ALDERSHOT                                                         186.57                  30
AMPNEY ST PETER                                                  1168.53                  55
ANDOVERSFORD                                                     1333.78                  84
APPLETON (NEW)                                                   1269.73                  98
ASCOT                                                             170.06                  29
ASTON LE WALLS                                                    541.60                  49
AYLESBURY                                                         234.95                  20
BAMPTON                                                           487.84                  51
BANBURY                                                           314.56                  34
BARKWAY                                                           733.85                  40
BEENHAM (KEALES COPSE)                                             187.94                 30
BENSON, OX                                                        869.98                  51
BENTLEY                                                           804.39                 129
BERKHAMSTED                                                      3770.12                 168
BICESTER                                                          555.78                  63
BLEDINGTON                                                       1028.41                  62
BLETCHINGDON                                                      459.12                  60
BLOXHAM                                                          1337.65                  78
BODDINGTON                                                       1754.01                 105
BORDON                                                            228.81                  21
BRACKNELL                                                        1123.72                  67
BRENTWOOD (NAGS HEAD LANE)                                         578.15                 60
BRICKENDON                                                        868.60                  67
BROADWELL                                                         525.24                  32
BUCKLEBURY                                                        395.41                  63
BURGHFIELD                                                       2397.33                 118
BURSTOW, SURREY                                                  1025.34                 112
BYFIELD                                                             75.55                 42
CARTERTON                                                          418.31                 28
CASSINGTON (New)                                                  383.57                  28
CHACOMBE                                                            50.38                 23
CHADLINGTON                                                       325.82                  34
CHALGROVE                                                         949.33                  58
CHAPEL ROW (BERKS)                                              1000.99                   57
CHAPMORE END                                                        61.63                 30
CHARLTON-ON-OTMOOR                                                805.49                  55
CHERTSEY                                                          654.22                  48


                                               217
     Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                         on Thames Water

CHESHAM                                                         1814.05                116
CHILTON FOLIAT                                                    775.60                60
CHINNOR                                                           421.27                52
CHIPPING NORTON                                                   441.41                34
CHIPPING WARDEN                                                  607.01                 66
CHOBHAM (OLD)                                                   1139.87                 98
CHURCH HANBOROUGH                                                865.25                 70
CIRENCESTER                                                     1216.07                 88
CLANFIELD                                                      3504.00                 148
COMBE                                                             728.33                48
COMPTON                                                         1110.21                 60
COTTERED                                                       1346.35                  83
CRANLEIGH, SURREY                                                 273.28                34
CRAWLEY NO. 2                                                     341.66                34
CRICKLADE                                                        549.00                 72
CRONDALL                                                          276.76                23
CROPREDY                                                       1095.61                  76
CROSSNESS                                                         383.91                35
CUDDINGTON                                                      1931.12                 90
CULWORTH                                                          231.78                36
DAGNALL                                                          360.27                 52
DEEPHAMS                                                          183.54                27
DIDCOT                                                            739.49                57
DORKING                                                           612.54                64
DORTON                                                             48.09                30
DRAYTON                                                           943.43                63
EAST SHEFFORD                                                   1424.02                 66
EPPING                                                            541.40                55
ESHER                                                             675.48                61
EVERSLEY (LOWER COMMON)                                           265.27                31
EYDON                                                             801.01                73
FAIRFORD                                                         1221.41                65
FARINGDON                                                         131.93                70
FARNBOROUGH (WARKS)                                             1206.11                 93
FARNHAM                                                          208.97                 29
FINSTOCK                                                         200.75                 24
FLEET, HANTS                                                    1428.16                 96
GERRARDS CROSS                                                  1171.88                 76
GRENDON UNDERWOOD                                                865.32                 70
HADDENHAM                                                         983.51                60
HAMPSTEAD NORREYS                                              2622.34                 153
HAMSTEAD MARSHALL                                                 631.93                57
HANWELL                                                           970.44                69
HARTLEY WINTNEY                                                   293.73                27
HASLEMERE                                                        920.20                 52
HATFIELD HEATH                                                 2602.85                 131
HEYFORD                                                           267.35                27
HIGHWORTH                                                         527.57                45

                                              218
     Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                         on Thames Water

HOLMWOOD                                                       1357.96                 107
HOOK NORTON                                                      181.24                 20
HORLEY (OXON)                                                    814.80                 65
HORNTON                                                          452.77                 38
HORTON-CUM-STUDLEY                                             1079.05                 132
KINGSCLERE                                                     1094.64                  77
KINGSTON BAGPUIZE                                                244.39                 39
KINTBURY                                                         788.81                 46
LEATHERHEAD                                                      795.76                 60
LECHLADE                                                         597.61                 35
LEE STREET                                                      1119.37                 69
LIGHTWATER                                                         82.22                23
LITTLE COMPTON                                                   649.57                 56
LITTLE HALLINGBURY                                              969.55                  59
LITTLE MARLOW                                                   464.69                  27
LITTLE MILTON                                                    132.21                 35
LONG REACH                                                       418.80                 44
LUDGERSHALL                                                       317.77                29
MAPLE LODGE                                                     960.00                  64
MARKYATE                                                       2641.63                 139
MARLBOROUGH                                                      407.77                 42
MARSH GIBBON                                                   1635.62                  87
MERSTHAM                                                        352.58                  30
MIDDLETON CHENEY                                                 344.56                 38
MILTON-UNDER-WYCHWOOD                                          1405.69                  96
MOGDEN                                                          438.30                  43
MORETON PINKNEY                                                    78.10                29
MORTIMER (STRATFIELD MORTIMER)                                 1576.22                  79
NEWBURY (NEW)                                                    251.02                 25
NORTH WEALD                                                    1195.67                  88
NORTHLEACH                                                       445.74                 50
OXFORD (SANDFORD)                                                891.52                 56
PIRBRIGHT (HOCKFORD)                                            138.60                  25
PRINCES RISBOROUGH                                             1685.68                  93
PURTON                                                          256.00                  24
REIGATE (EARLSWOOD)                                            1777.60                  98
RIPLEY                                                           155.85                 21
RIVERSIDE, DAGENHAM, ESSEX                                     1733.02                 102
RYE MEADS                                                        237.16                 34
SANDHURST                                                       601.60                  35
SELBORNE                                                       1321.69                  70
SEVENHAMPTON VILLAGE                                             519.75                 29
SHABBINGTON                                                      315.94                 24
SHERFIELD-ON-LODDON                                             309.54                  26
SHOTTESWELL                                                     286.32                  41
SHRIVENHAM                                                      386.20                  25
SHUTFORD                                                        902.85                  68
SILCHESTER                                                      968.32                  63

                                              219
      Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                          on Thames Water

SOUTH LEIGH                                                     2399.39                  117
SOUTH MORETON                                                    2141.91                150
STANDLAKE                                                         888.10                  40
STANSTED MOUNTFITCHET                                             383.07                 30
STANTON HARCOURT                                                  847.85                  45
STEWKLEY                                                         1861.17                122
STONE                                                           2683.02                 127
SWINDON                                                           231.66                  22
TAKELEY                                                         1281.03                  90
TETSWORTH                                                         329.41                  26
THAME                                                             320.78                  26
THERFIELD                                                         242.81                  26
THEYDON BOIS                                                      689.39                  97
THORNWOOD                                                         511.92                  52
UFFINGTON                                                         426.43                  46
WADDESDON                                                       1760.59                 109
WANBOROUGH                                                        732.48                  48
WANTAGE (STORM)                                                   155.20                  26
WARMINGTON                                                         85.71                  26
WASHWATER                                                         697.48                  61
WATLINGTON                                                         70.34                  24
WESTON (HERTS)                                                    735.90                  53
WESTON-ON-THE-GREEN                                                18.19                  26
WEYBRIDGE                                                         304.55                  32
WHEATLEY, OXON                                                  1199.54                   76
WHITWELL                                                         1517.48                  83
WILLINGALE                                                       1144.58                  62
WINDSOR                                                           744.07                  70
WINGRAVE                                                        1237.59                   72
WINTERBOURNE                                                      167.68                  43
WITNEY                                                            934.91                  54
WOKINGHAM (ASH RIDGE)                                             484.61                 50
WOODSTOCK, OXON                                                   916.47                  52
WORMINGHALL                                                       479.53                  42
CODICOTE STK                                                    1315.99                   62


Storm overflows on the network (Sites spilling >60 times are shaded)
                                                     Total Spills            Counted Spills
                                                     Duration Hrs

ACTON P/S and STORM                                              215.95                  34
AUCKLAND ROAD PUMPING STATION TANKS                              207.39                  23
BAKERS FARM, HIGH WYCH                                           350.37                  38
BELL LANE CREEK                                                  531.89                  71
BLACKNEST PUMPING STATION, SUNNINGD                               44.26                  27
BOURTON-ON-THE-WATER STW                                        1085.22                  58
BRIXTON STORM RELIEF SEWER, LONDON                               455.31                 105


                                               220
     Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                         on Thames Water

CAGE END PUMPING STATION, CAGE END,                             130.72                  22
CHARLTON STORM RELIEF, LONDON                                    117.64                 51
COBHAM BRIDGE, ADJ COBHAM PS                                    424.75                  39
CORBET ROAD / REDBRIDGE LANE, WANST                               46.03                 33
COUNTERS CREEK, LOTS ROAD PS, LONDON                              99.72                 27
CSO AT CAPEL SPS                                                  91.40                 47
CSO AT CROFTON ROAD                                             152.84                  37
CSO AT DAINTRY ROAD                                             316.67                  72
CSO AT HIGH ROAD                                                  26.54                 25
CSO AT MAPLETON ROAD/BRATHWAY ROAD                                59.74                 36
DEPTFORD CREEK STORM                                             68.00                  24
DEPTFORD STORM RELIEF, LONDON                                   509.33                 105
EARL PS STORM OUTLET, LONDON                                    108.75                  20
EAST GARSTON                                                    228.19                 104
FALCON BROOK PS, LONDON                                         466.11                  88
FLEET MAIN LINE SEWER, LONDON                                   101.04                  39
FOLKESTONE ROAD PUMPING STATION STO                             158.95                  25
FROGMORE STORM                                                    73.94                 25
HADHAM MILL                                                     275.34                  30
HAMMERSMITH PS, LONDON                                          236.94                  35
HEATH WALL PS, LONDON                                            211.29                 45
HONEYPOT LANE                                                    119.51                 40
HORSEFERRY ROAD SEWER, LONDON                                   116.98                  46
IRONGATE SEWER, LONDON                                            45.20                 27
KEW PS, WEST HALL ROAD, KEW                                     243.31                  22
KING EDWARD MEMORIAL PARK, LONDON                                 92.36                 31
KINGS SCHOLARS POND SEWER, LONDON                                 33.03                 21
KNIGHTS LANE                                                    359.10                  25
LEOPARD ROAD, CHURCH PATH                                        111.45                 38
LITTLEMEAD INDUSTRIAL ESTATE CSO                                354.34                  27
LONGBRIDGE ROAD                                                 556.44                  79
LOWER THAMES STREET, BEER LANE, LON                               40.48                 38
MULBERRY COURT, HALL ROAD                                       135.40                  60
NEW STORM TANSK, CASCADE ROAD, BUCKHU                            261.11                 40
NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, LONDON                                     40.41                 35
OPPOSITE ST STEPHEN'S HALL                                      560.31                  64
PAULS PIER CSO                                                   127.45                 64
PETERSHAM ROAD, LONDON                                            69.65                 29
PRIORY LANE STORM, MORTLAKE                                       57.66                 23
PROSPECT ROAD CSO,                                               171.98                 58
PUTNEY BRIDGE STREET, LONDON                                      99.67                 35
RUSPER SPS                                                        85.43                 21
SHAD, THAMES PS, LONDON                                           86.24                 30
SLOANE STREET, RANELAGH GDNS, LONDO                             243.21                  54
SNAKES LANE                                                     332.39                  78
SOUTH NORWOOD CSO                                                 45.93                 20
SOUTH PARK,                                                     296.61                  65
STORM OVERFLOW, BEECH HALL CRESCENT                            1028.20                 116

                                              221
       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                           on Thames Water

 STREATHAM & BALHAM STORM RELIEF                                   153.94                 68
 STREATHAM STORM RELIEF                                            134.99                 50
 SW STORM RELIEF SEWER, LONDON                                      64.76                 33
 TRUMPERS WAY, W7                                                   78.09                 33
 WANDLE VALLEY, LONDON                                             202.58                 20
 WARDINGTON PUMPING STATION, WARDING                              1927.88                135
 WEALDBRIDGE, NORTH WEALD                                          169.26                 27
 WEST HEATH RAMSDELL PS                                            381.74                 27
 WEST WAY, BOTLEY (SYPHON)                                          83.39                 22
 WESTERN PS LOW LEVEL SEWER, LONDON                                121.94                 28
 WESTON-ON-THE-GREEN STW PS                                        686.58                 45
 WESTWAY CLOSE                                                     134.62                 35
 WINTERSBROOK, HASTINGWOOD                                         323.91                 32
 WORCESTER CRESCENT CSO                                            162.73                 44


Source: Environment Agency EDM report, 2021.




                                                222
                                     Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                         on Thames Water


A6: List of sites at which Thames Water has conducted SOAF assessments to April 2024
Storm overflow        Year        SOAF Stage 1 Outcome      Progressed   Progressed    Stage 3:       In AMP8   SOAF           Preliminary   Site
                      triggered                             to SOAF      to SOAF       Preferred      WINEP?    completed      SODRP         allocated
                                                            Stage 2      Stage 3       Option                   (all stages    Scheduling    to
                                                                                       (By default              as                           WAAP?
                                                                                       the most                 required)
                                                                                       affordable
                                                                                       option)
                                  Mix of Hydraulic and
Abbess Roding STW
                      2020        Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8
                                  Mix of Hydraulic and
Abingdon STW                      Operational drivers-
                      2020*       ongoing scheme            N            N                            N         Y              AMP9          Y
                                  Operational - ongoing
Aldermaston STW
                      2020        scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10         Y
                                  Operational - ongoing
Ampney St Peter STW
                      2019        scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10
                                                                                       Hybrid STW
                                                                                       option - FFT
Andoversford STW                                                                       and storm
                                  Mix of Hydraulic and                                 tank
                      2021        Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8
Ashridge                          Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Optioneering
(Wokingham) STW       2021        Operational drivers       Y            Y             ongoing        N         N              AMP9          Y
                                  Mix of Hydraulic and
Bampton STW
                      2019        Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8
Beech Hall Crescent               Mix of Hydraulic and                                 In network
TQ38916303 CSO        2021        Operational drivers       Y            Y             storage        Y         Y              AMP8
                                                                                                                               AMP7
Bell Lane Creek
                                  Hydraulic - ongoing                                                                          (Tideway
TQ2574551C CSO
                      2020        scheme                    N            N                            N/A       Y              Tunnel)
                                  Operational - ongoing
Benson STW
                      2021        scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
                                  Operational - ongoing
Bentley STW
                      2020        scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8          Y



                                                                              223
                                  Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                      on Thames Water

                               Operational - ongoing
Berkhamsted STW
                       2020    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9
                               Operational - ongoing
Bicester STW
                       2020    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
Bledington STW
                       2019    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8
                               Operational - ongoing
Bletchingdon STW
                       2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
                               Mix of Hydraulic and
Boddington STW
                       2020*   Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                               Operational - ongoing
Bordon STW
                       2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
Bourton On The Water           Operational - ongoing
SP17193803 CSO         2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10
Bracknell STW          2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
                                                                                    Storm Tank
Brickendon STW
                       2020    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                                                                                                                            AMP7
Brixton Road
                               Hydraulic - ongoing                                                                          (Tideway
TQ31761401 CSO
                       2020    scheme                    N            N                            N/A       Y              Tunnel)
                               Operational - ongoing
Broadwell STW
                       2021    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
BS_Knights Lane SPS    2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
BS_St Stephens Hall            Operational - ongoing
SPS                    2021    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
                               Operational - ongoing
BS_West Heath SPS
                       2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
                               Operational - ongoing
Bucklebury STW
                       2019    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8       Y
Burghfield STW         2019    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                               Operational - ongoing
Carterton STW
                       2021    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
Cascade Road Storm
Tanks TQ42930607
CSO                    2020    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
                               Mix of Hydraulic and
Chadlington STW
                       2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8
Chalgrove STW          2020    Operational - resolved    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y


                                                                           224
                                Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                    on Thames Water

                                                                                  Storm Tank
Chapel Row STW
                      2020   Hydraulic                 Y            Y             increase       N         Y              AMP10         Y
Chapmore End STW      2019   Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP12
                             Operational - ongoing
Charlton Otmoor STW
                      2019   scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8
                             Operational - ongoing
Chertsey STW
                      2021   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11         Y
                             Operational - ongoing
Chesham STW
                      2020   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9
                             Operational - ongoing                                                                        Permit
Chilton Foliat STW
                      2021   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              Surrendered   Y
                             Operational - ongoing
Chinnor STW
                      2019   scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8          Y
                             Operational - ongoing
Chipping Warden STW
                      2021   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10         Y
Chobham STW           2020   Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11         Y
Church Hanborough            Mix of Hydraulic and
STW                   2019   Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP9          Y
                             Operational - ongoing
Cirencester STW
                      2020   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9
                             Operational - ongoing
Clanfield Marsh STW
                      2019   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9          Y
                                                                                  Not required
Codicote STK                 Mix of Hydraulic and                   N- special    - discharge
                      2020   Operational drivers       Y            case          to land TA     N         Y              AMP11
Colgate STW           2019   Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
                             Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Storm Tank
Combe STW
                      2019   Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8
                             Operational - ongoing
Compton STW
                      2020   scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8          Y
Corbett Road                                                                      In network
TQ4188231C CSO        2020   Hydraulic                 Y            Y             storage        Y         Y              AMP8
                             Mix of Hydraulic and
Cottered STW                 Operational drivers-
                      2020   ongoing scheme            N            N                            N         Y              AMP10         Y
                             Operational - ongoing
Cranleigh STW
                      2021   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11         Y
                             Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Optioneering
Cricklade STW
                      2021   Operational drivers       Y            Y             ongoing        N         N              AMP11         Y

                                                                         225
                                   Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                       on Thames Water

                                Operational - ongoing
Crondall STW
                        2020    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8       Y
Crossness STW
Combined                2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
                                Mix of Hydraulic and
Cuddington STW
                        2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         N              AMP8       Y
Dagnall STW             2020    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
Daintry Close                   Data Error - not a high
TQ16893216 CSO          2020*   spiller                   N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8
                                Data Error - not a high
Dartford Creek STK 1
                        2020*   spiller                   N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
                                                                                                                             AMP7
Deptford Storm Relief
                                Hydraulic - ongoing                                                                          (Tideway
TQ37774003 CSO
                        2020*   scheme                    N            N                            N/A       Y              Tunnel)
                                Operational - ongoing
Didcot STW
                        2020    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9
                                Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Storm Tank
Dorking STW
                        2019    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       N         Y              AMP9       Y
                                Mix of Hydraulic and
Drayton STW                     Operational drivers-
                        2021*   ongoing scheme            N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
Earlswood STW
(Reigate STW)           2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
                                Operational - ongoing
East Shefford STW
                        2020    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                                Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Optioneering
Esher STW Level 2
                        2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             ongoing        N         N              AMP9       Y
                                                                                     Hybrid STW
                                                                                     option - FFT
Eydon STW                                                                            and storm
                                Mix of Hydraulic and                                 tank
                        2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                                Operational - ongoing
Fairford STW
                        2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
                                                                                                                             AMP7
Falcon Brook
                                Hydraulic - ongoing                                                                          (Tideway
Strategic SPS
                        2021    scheme                    N            N                            N/A       Y              Tunnel)
                                Mix of Hydraulic and
Faringdon STW
                        2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP11      Y

                                                                            226
                                  Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                      on Thames Water

Farnborough STW
                       2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
                                                                                    Hybrid STW
                                                                                    option - FFT
Fiddlers Hamlet STW                                                                 and storm
                               Mix of Hydraulic and                                 tank
                       2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       N         Y              AMP9
                                                                                                                            AMP7
Fleet Mainline A
                               Hydraulic - ongoing                                                                          (Tideway
TQ31806829 PT1 CSO
                       2020*   scheme                    N            N                            N/A       Y              Tunnel)
                               Operational - ongoing
Fleet STW
                       2020    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
                               Operational - ongoing
Fyfield STW
                       2020    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8       Y
Gerrards Cross STW     2020    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8       Y
Great Bedwyn STW       2020    Operational               N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8
Grendon Underwood              Operational - ongoing
STW                    2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
Grosvenor Ditch                Hydraulic - ongoing
TQ30782704 CSO         2020*   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10
Haddenham STW          2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
Hampstead Norreys              Operational - ongoing
STW                    2020    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8       Y
Hamstead Marshall
STW                    2019    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8
                                                                                    Storm Tank
Hanwell STW
                       2020    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8
                               Operational - ongoing
Haslemere STW
                       2021    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
Hatfield Heath STW     2020    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
                               Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Optioneering
Highworth STW
                       2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             ongoing        N         N              AMP9
Horley (Oxfordshire)           Operational - ongoing
STW                    2020    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
                               Mix of Hydraulic and
Horley (Surrey) STW
                       2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8       Y
Horton Cum Studley             Mix of Hydraulic and
STW                    2019    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8       Y


                                                                           227
                                    Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                        on Thames Water

Irongate TQ33807401              Hydraulic - ongoing
CSO                      2019*   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10
Kings Scholars Pond              Hydraulic - ongoing
TQ29787103 CSO           2020*   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10
                                 Operational - ongoing
Kingsclere STW
                         2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11   Y
Kintbury STW             2020    Operational               N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8    Y
Leaden Roding STW                Data Error - not a high
Inlet PS                 2020*   spiller                   N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
Leatherhead STW          2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP9    Y
                                                                                      Hybrid STW
                                                                                      option - FFT
Little Compton STW                                                                    and storm
                                 Mix of Hydraulic and                                 tank
                         2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       N         Y              AMP10   Y
                                 Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Storm Tank
Little Hallingbury STW
                         2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8    Y
Longbridge Road B                Mix of Hydraulic and                                 In network
TQ4685671B CSO           2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             storage        Y         Y              AMP8
Longreach STW            2020    Operational - resolved    N            N                            N         Y              AMP12   Y
Maple Lodge STK9         2020    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP10   Y
                                 Operational - ongoing
Markyate STW
                         2021    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8    Y
                                 Operational - ongoing
Marlborough STW
                         2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9    Y
                                 Operational - ongoing
Marsh Gibbon STW
                         2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10   Y
Milton Under                     Operational - ongoing
Wychwood STW             2020    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10   Y
Mortimer (Stratfield)
STW                      2019    Operational               N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8    Y
Mulberry Court                                                                        In network
TQ38859703 CSO           2019    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             storage        Y         Y              AMP8
                                 Mix of Hydraulic and
Nags Head Lane STW
                         2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP9    Y
Narrow Street                    Hydraulic - ongoing
TQ35809804 CSO           2019*   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9
                                 Operational - ongoing
NB_East Garston SPS
                         2020    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8

                                                                             228
                                  Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                      on Thames Water

Newbury STW            2020    Operational               N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                               Operational - ongoing
North Weald STW
                       2021    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                               Data Error - not a high
Northleach STW
                       2020*   spiller                   N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
Oxford STW             2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
                               Data Error - not a high
Pangbourne STW
                       2020*   spiller                   N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
Princes Risborough             Operational - ongoing
STW                    2020    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
Prospect Road
TQ4192531C CSO         2020    Operational               N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8
                                                                                                                            AMP7
Putney Bridge Street
                               Hydraulic - ongoing                                                                          (Tideway
TQ24751505 CSO
                       2020*   scheme                    N            N                            N/A       Y              Tunnel)
Riverside STW Level
ST 9                   2020    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
Roehampton Vale                Data Error - not a high
TQ21725306 CSO         2019    spiller                   N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8
Rusper STW             2019    Operational               N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8
                               Mix of Hydraulic and
Selborne STW
                       2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                                                                                    Hybrid STW
                                                                                    option - FFT
Sevenhampton STW                                                                    and storm
                                                                                    tank
                       2020    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8
Shad Thames                    Hydraulic - ongoing
Strategic SPS          2020*   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10
Shutford STW           2019    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
                               Operational - ongoing
Silchester STW
                       2021    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9       Y
                                                                                                                            AMP7
Sloane Street                  Hydraulic - ongoing                                                                          (Tideway
                       2020*   scheme                    N            N                            N/A       Y              Tunnel)
                               Hydraulic - ongoing
Smith Street 2
                       2021*   scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP9
                               Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Storm Tank
South Leigh STW
                       2019    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       N         Y              AMP10      Y

                                                                           229
                                  Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                      on Thames Water

South Morton STW       2021    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
South Park                                                                          Storm Tank
TQ45862303 CSO         2020    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8
                               Operational - ongoing
Stanton Harcourt STW
                       2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
                               Mix of Hydraulic and
Stewkley STW
                       2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                               Mix of Hydraulic and
Stone STW
                       2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                                                                      Y- assumed,
Streatham & Balham                                                    assessed in
                       2021    Hydraulic                 Y            cluster       TBC            N         N              AMP9
Streatham Storm                Hydraulic - ongoing
Relief                 2020    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8
                                                                                                                            AMP7
SW Storm Relief
                               Hydraulic - ongoing                                                                          (Tideway
Sewer
                       2020    scheme                    N            N                            N/A       Y              Tunnel)
                               Data Error - not a high
Swindon STW
                       2020*   spiller                   N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
                               Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Storm Tank
Takeley STW
                       2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8       Y
Thames Street                  Hydraulic - ongoing
TQ32800901 CSO         2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10
                               Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Storm Tank
Theydon Bois STW
                       2019    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                                                                                    Hybrid STW
                                                                                    option - FFT
Thornwood STW                                                                       and storm
                               Mix of Hydraulic and                                 tank
                       2020*   Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8       Y
                               Operational - ongoing
Uffington STW
                       2020    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP10      Y
                               Mix of Hydraulic and                                 Storm Tank
Waddesdon STW
                       2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       N         Y              AMP10      Y
Wanborough STW         2020    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y
                                                                                    Storm Tank
Wardington TSPS
                       2021    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8
                               Operational - ongoing
Washwater STW
                       2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11      Y

                                                                           230
                                Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                    on Thames Water

Weston STW           2020    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP10
                             Mix of Hydraulic and
Weybridge STW
                     2021    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP11
                                                                                  Hybrid STW
                                                                                  option - FFT
Wheatley STW                                                                      and storm
                             Mix of Hydraulic and                                 tank
                     2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8
                             Data Error - not a high
White Roding STW
                     2020*   spiller                   N            N                            N         Y              AMP11   Y
                             Operational - ongoing
Whitwell STW
                     2021    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8    Y
                             Mix of Hydraulic and
Willingale STW
                     2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP10
Winchester Avenue
TQ19891514 CSO       2021    To be assessed            TBA          TBC                          Y         N              AMP8
                             Mix of Hydraulic and
Windsor STW
                     2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP9    Y
                             Mix of Hydraulic and
Wingrave STW
                     2020    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP10   Y
                             Operational - ongoing
Winterbourne STW
                     2020    scheme                    N            N                            Y         Y              AMP8
                             Operational - ongoing
Witney STW
                     2019    scheme                    N            N                            N         Y              AMP11
Worcester Crescent                                                                In network
CSO                  2021    Hydraulic                 Y            Y             storage        Y         Y              AMP8
Worminghall STW      2021    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP11   Y
                             Mix of Hydraulic and
Islip STW
                     2020*   Operational drivers       Y            TBC                          N         Y              AMP11
Little Milton STW    2020*   Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP9
Appleton STW         2018    Operational               N            N                            N         Y              AMP10   Y
                             Mix of Hydraulic and
Bloxham STW
                     2018    Operational drivers       Y            Y             FFT increase   N         Y              AMP9    Y
                                                                                  Hybrid STW
                                                                                  option - FFT
Burstow STW                                                                       and storm
                             Mix of Hydraulic and                                 tank
                     2018    Operational drivers       Y            Y             increase       Y         Y              AMP8    Y


                                                                          231
                                       Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                                           on Thames Water

                                                                                            Hybrid STW
                                                                                            option - FFT
 Cropredy STW                                                                               and storm
                                                                                            tank
                        2018        Hydraulic                   Y             Y             increase       Y      Y              AMP8       Y
                                    Data Error - not a high
 Middle Barton STW
                        2018        spiller                     N             N                            N      Y              AMP11      Y
                                    Mix of Hydraulic and                                    Storm Tank
 Holmwood STW
                        2018        Operational drivers         Y             Y             increase       N      Y              AMP9       Y
                                                                                            Increased
 Brentfied Gardens
                                                                                            network
 CSO
                        2018        Hydraulic                   Y             Y             conveyance     N      Y              AMP10
 Snakes Lane                        Mix of Hydraulic and                                    In network
 TQ41914707 CSO         2018        Operational drivers         Y             Y             storage        N      Y              AMP9
                                    Mix of Hydraulic and
 Ludgershall STW        2022        Operational drivers         Y             TBC                          N      N              AMP12      Y
                                    Mix of Hydraulic and                                    Optioneering
 Woodstock STW
                        2022        Operational drivers         Y             Y             ongoing        N      N              AMP12      Y
Source: Thames Water, April 2024. * original trigger year, but data revised - potential different trigger year.

Storm overflows highlighted are sites which spilled >60 times in 2021 due to hydraulic capacity reasons and which are included in our assessment of sites which
may have breached Regulation 4(2) and 4(4) UWWTR in Table 4.1 and Table 4.2.




                                                                                    232
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water


A7: Penalties framework
1. We apply financial penalties on the facts and evidence in each specific enforcement case. This
   case is part of a sector-wide investigation into all water companies in England and Wales. To
   ensure consistency across the companies subject to this investigation, we have followed our
   Statement of policy with respect to financial penalties; and used a set of guiding principles which
   are described below.

2. Given the serious nature of the evidence presented to us, and in view of our statutory duties to
   enforce, it is important that Ofwat considers the full extent of its penalty setting powers.
   Consequently, we have considered levying penalties across the full range available to us, from
   zero to 10% of relevant turnover.

3. Although we have identified contraventions of separate provisions of Regulation 4 UWWTR, section
   94 WIA and Condition P, given their overlapping nature we have chosen to impose only one penalty
   in respect of all identified breaches.

4. To guide the appropriate penalty level, we have evaluated our cumulative findings, based on the
   evidence provided by the companies, to allocate the case to one of three broad categories: Minor
   (up to 3%), Serious (up to 6%) and Significant (up to 10%) each reflecting the scale and
   seriousness of the breaches. Our approach focuses on indicators of asset performance (as set out
   in the table below) and also considers the extent of relevant additional section 94 WIA91 and
   Condition P failures (considering the expectations we set out in Section 2 at paragraphs 2.124 to
   2.128).

5. Once allocated to one of the categories (Minor, Serious or Significant) we re-consider the full set
   of case evidence in the round, to determine the appropriate penalty level.


    Category           Examples of indicators and failings relevant by            Indicative penalty level
                                         Category

    Significant        With respect to WWTW:                                             Up to 10%


                       •   ≥ 30% of sites potentially non-compliant with FFT
                           requirements and/or
                       •   ≥20% of sites failing to meet Q80 DWF
                       •   Material concerns about other aspects of permit
                           compliance (e.g. storm tank capacity)
                       •   ≥ 30% of WWTW storm overflows spilling more than
                           60 times per year in 2021 (subject to factors
                           described in more detail below) and/or
                       •   A material number of storm overflows without a valid
                           permit, i.e. unpermitted (20%+ of storm overflows).


                       With respect to network:




                                                       233
            Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                                on Thames Water

                        •   ≥ 30% of network storm overflows spilling more than
                            60 times per year in 2021 (subject to factors
                            described in more detail below) and/or
                        •   a material number of unpermitted storm overflows
                            (20%+ of storm overflows).


    Serious             With respect to WWTW:                                           Up to 6%

                        •   ≥ 10% of sites potentially non-compliant with FFT
                            requirements and/or
                        •   ≥10% of sites failing to meet Q80 DWF and/or some
                            concerns about other aspects of permit compliance
                            (e.g. storm tank capacity)
                        •   ≥ 10% of WWTW storm overflows spilling more than
                            60 times per year in 2021 (subject to factors
                            described in more detail below) and/or
                        •   A small number of storm overflows without a valid
                            permit, i.e. unpermitted (10%+ of storm overflows).


                        With respect to network:


                        •   ≥ 10% of network storm overflows spilling more than
                            60 times per year in 2021 (subject to factors
                            described in more detail below) and/or
                        •   a small number of unpermitted storm overflows
                            (10%+ of storm overflows).


    Minor               With respect to WWTW:                                           Up to 3%

                        •   < 10% of sites potentially non-compliant with FFT
                            requirements and/or.
                        •   < 10% of sites failing to meet Q80 DWF.
                        •   No material concerns about other aspects of permit
                            compliance (e.g. storm tank capacity).
                        •   < 10% of WWTW storm overflows spilling more than
                            60 times per year in 2021 (subject to factors
                            described in more detail below) and/or
                        •   A non-material number of storm overflows without a
                            valid permit, i.e. unpermitted (<10% of storm
                            overflows).


                        With respect to network:


                        •   < 10% of network storm overflows spilling more than
                            60 times per year in 2021 (subject to factors
                            described in more detail below) and/or
                        •   A non-material number of unpermitted storm
                            overflows (<10% of storm overflows).


6. Subject to judgement based on wider case-specific evidence and accommodating case-specific
   factors as appropriate, we have approached the assessment of breaches within these three
   categories as follows:


                                                         234
           Notice of Ofwat’s decision to issue an enforcement order and impose a financial penalty
                                               on Thames Water

   •   We recognise that companies have, erroneously, treated the SOAF as establishing the limits of
       their storm overflow remediation obligations. Accordingly, on this occasion, we are penalising
       companies for any breaches of the UWWTR related to spills of more than 60 per year where:
       root cause analysis has not been carried out or has not been carried out in a timely manner;
       where root cause analysis identified hydraulic capacity as the problem but the company has
       not carried out a further SOAF investigation and has no such further investigation planned;
       asset operational and maintenance issues have arisen; or where a company has identified a
       BTKNEEC compatible solution which has not been implemented.

   •   In general, we would consider breaches of the UWWTR to be Significant, even when other
       indicators might be categorised as Serious or Minor. The precise penalty level for a Significant
       breach depends on the cumulative nature of those breaches, also taking into account our
       findings in relation to the general duty in section 94 WIA91 and Condition P.

   •   With respect to breaches of section 94 WIA91, the categorisation of breach has been informed
       by the extent and nature of our findings in relation to UWWTR compliance.

   •   With respect to contraventions of Condition P, we have considered the seriousness of those
       contraventions based on the root causes of the failings and whether these can be attributed to
       management failures.

7. Once the broad level of penalty has been determined in line with the approach above, we
   considered what further adjustments should be applied to reflect the relevant aggravating and
   mitigating factors, as set out in our Statement of policy, with each assigned a weighting within
   the range of 0-10% of the broad penalty level, depending on our judgement based on the
   evidence.

8. Finally, we considered, including in light of all of Ofwat's relevant duties, whether there are any
   exceptional factors which ought to be taken into account to further calibrate the penalty.




                                                    235
Ofwat (The Water Services Regulation Authority)
is a non-ministerial government department.
We regulate the water sector in England and Wales.




Ofwat
Centre City Tower
7 Hill Street
Birmingham B5 4UA
Phone: 0121 644 7500

© Crown copyright 2025

This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open
Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated.
To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/
open-government-licence/version/3.

Where we have identified any third party copyright
information, you will need to obtain permission from the
copyright holders concerned.

This document is also available from our website at
www.ofwat.gov.uk.

Any enquiries regarding this publication should be sent
to mailbox@ofwat.gov.uk.
