                                        July 29, 2025


Ms. Bridgett McMahan
President and Chief Executive Officer
BESCO-Engert
1800 N Central Street
Knoxville, Tennessee 37917

WEA-2025-03

Dear Ms. McMahan:

This letter refers to the Department of Energy’s (DOE) investigation into the facts and
circumstances regarding the worker injury that occurred on July 14, 2023, at the Oak
Ridge National Laboratory’s Translational Research Capability project construction site.
The injury occurred when an Engert, LLC (Engert) employee was struck and pinned by a
585-pound truss boom attachment (jib) that fell from the forks of a telehandler.

DOE considers this injury to be of high safety significance as it was a near miss to a
fatality. The injury occurred when the worker was positioned on the roof to receive a
load of three carbon steel pipes, each weighing approximately 200 pounds. As the
telehandler operator tilted the forks downward to deliver the load, the load shifted,
causing the jib to slide off the forks, striking and pinning the worker. The worker’s right
ankle and pelvis were fractured, leading to 188 days away from work. The event
revealed deficiencies in management responsibilities, hazard prevention and abatement,
safety and health standards, construction safety, and training and information.

Based on an evaluation of the evidence in this matter, DOE concludes that Engert
violated requirements prescribed under 10 Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.) Part
851, Worker Safety and Health Program. Accordingly, DOE hereby issues the enclosed
Preliminary Notice of Violation (PNOV) which cites one Severity Level I violation with
a total base civil penalty, before mitigation, of $118,000.

The Office of Enforcement determined that Engert’s corrective actions related to
management responsibilities, hazard prevention and abatement, safety and health
standards, construction safety, and training and information were timely and appear to
address the noncompliances in these areas. If adequately implemented and maintained by
Engert, the corrective actions should be sufficient to prevent recurrence of the conditions
that led to this injury. Therefore, the Office of Enforcement grants 50 percent reduction
in the base civil penalty of this Severity Level I violation. As a result, the total proposed
civil penalty is $59,000.

                                                                                          2


Pursuant to 10 C.F.R. § 851.42, Preliminary Notice of Violation, you are obligated to
submit a written reply within 30 calendar days of receipt of the enclosed PNOV and to
follow the instructions specified in the PNOV when preparing your response. If you fail
to submit a reply within the 30 calendar days, then in accordance with 10 C.F.R. §
851.42(d), you relinquish any right to appeal any matter in the PNOV, and the PNOV
will constitute a final order.

After reviewing your reply to the PNOV, DOE will determine whether any further
activity is necessary to ensure compliance with DOE worker safety and health
requirements.

                                            Sincerely,



                                            Robin M. Keeler
                                            Acting Director
                                            Office of Enforcement
                                            Office of Enterprise Assessments

Enclosures: Preliminary Notice of Violation (WEA-2025-01)
            Payment Processing Instructions

cc: Megan Duthie, Legal Counsel, BESCO
    Trey Wheeler, SC-OSO

                                                                                       Enclosure 1
                                Preliminary Notice of Violation

Engert, LLC
Oak Ridge National Laboratory

WEA-2025-03

A U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) investigation into the facts and circumstances associated
with the July 14, 2023, worker injury, that occurred during a material handling activity at the
Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) Translational Research Capability (TRC) project
construction site, revealed violations of DOE worker safety and health requirements by Engert,
LLC (Engert). The injured worker was employed by Engert, a subcontractor for The Whiting-
Turner Contracting Company (Whiting-Turner). At the time of the event, Whiting-Turner was
under contract with UT-Battelle, LLC (UT-Battelle) as the general contractor for the TRC
construction project.

The injury occurred when an unsecured 585-pound truss boom attachment (jib) fell from the
