                                    December 3, 2025

Mr. Dutch Conrad
President and Project Manager
Mid-America Conversion Services, LLC
1020 Monarch Street
Suite 300
Lexington, Kentucky 40513

WEA-2025-01 (Final Notice of Violation)

Dear Mr. Conrad:

Pursuant to Section 234C of the Atomic Energy Act, as amended, 42 United States Code
(U.S.C.) § 2282c, and Department of Energy (DOE) regulations in 10 Code of Federal
Regulations (C.F.R.) Part 851, Worker Safety and Health Program, DOE is issuing this
Final Notice of Violation (FNOV) to Mid-America Conversion Services, LLC (MCS) for
violations of DOE’s worker safety and health requirements. The FNOV is based upon
the DOE Office of Enforcement’s May 24, 2024, investigation summary and a thorough
review of all evidence presented to DOE by MCS, including MCS’s original
investigation, corrective actions, and reply to the Preliminary Notice of Violation
(PNOV) issued on July 30, 2025.

DOE received MCS’s reply to the PNOV on August 26, 2025. In its reply, MCS
accepted the PNOV but contested the following points and requested that DOE consider
amending them:

       (1) The entrant’s condition when the attendant ordered them to exit the tank (i.e.,
           transmittal letter page one paragraph three and Enclosure 1 paragraph two).
           MCS contends that the entrant was observed to be “unsteady” but was never
           unresponsive and did not lose consciousness.

       (2) The effects of overexposure to toluene via inhalation (i.e., transmittal letter
           page one paragraph two and Enclosure 1 paragraph two). MCS notes that the
           Safety Data Sheet (SDS) states “Effects [o]f Overexposure – Inhalation: [m]ay
           cause central nervous system depression characterized by the following
           progressive steps: headache, dizziness, staggering, gait, confusion,
           unconsciousness or coma.” MCS requested that statements regarding
           overexposure to toluene be consistent with the SDS.

       (3) The overall event characterization (i.e., transmittal letter, page one paragraph
           two). MCS requested that the characterization of the event be changed from
           “a near miss to a fatality” to “a near miss to a serious injury.”

                                                                                                2


DOE has evaluated MCS’s reply and agrees to revise the paragraphs regarding the
entrant’s condition, changing the description from “unresponsive” to “unsteady,” as well
as the statement discussing the effects of toluene overexposure to align with the SDS.
Lastly, regarding the characterization of the event in the transmittal letter from “a near
miss to a fatality” to “a near miss to a serious injury,” DOE notes that while the SDS for
toluene does not explicitly list “fatality” as an effect of overexposure, the listed
progressive outcomes to overexposure, including “unconsciousness or coma” represent
conditions that, if severe or prolonged, are capable of leading to fatality, especially in an
uncontrolled confined space environment. Therefore, the inherent potential for severe
harm, inclusive of fatality, warrants the characterization as a “near miss to a fatality.”

Pursuant to 10 C.F.R. § 851.44, MCS may petition DOE’s Office of Hearings and
Appeals for review of the enclosed FNOV. MCS’s petition must adhere to the procedural
requirements established in Subpart G of 10 C.F.R. Part 1003, Office of Hearings and
Appeals Procedural Regulations. If MCS does not petition the Office of Hearings and
Appeals within 30 calendar days of receipt of this FNOV, MCS relinquishes any right to
appeal any matter raised therein, and the FNOV will become a final order as provided by
10 C.F.R. § 851.43(c).

                                                  Sincerely,




                                                  Robin M. Keeler
                                                  Acting Director
                                                  Office of Enforcement
                                                  Office of Enterprise Assessments

Enclosure: Final Notice of Violation (WEA-2025-01)

cc: Reinhard Knerr, PPPO
    Carisa Kremin, Mid-America Conversion Services, LLC

                                                                                      Enclosure

                                   Final Notice of Violation


Mid-America Conversion Services, LLC
Paducah DUF6 Conversion Facility

WEA-2025-01
