                                                    USDA
                                                    iiiiii
                                      United States Department of Agriculture
                                           food Safety and Inspection Service
                                            1400 Jndependence Avenue, SW
                                                Washingto n, DC 20250


August 20, 2026
                                                                 Electronically Submitted on August 20, 2026
                                                                 FedEx Tracking: fbK6)             I

 Salsahil Meat Processing (Est. M47033)
 12 Ehle Street
 Nelliston, New York, 0495 8
fb)(6)       tq)gmail.com
 Ph: (516) 288-1028

                          ~l Managing Principa1
Attention: ~l(b_J<S)_ _ _ _

NOTICE OF SUSPENSION

 This letter serves as official notification by the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSJS) of its decision
 to, effective immediately, withhold the marks of inspection and suspend inspection services for the
 Slaughter Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) process at Salsabil Meat Processing (Est.
 M47033), located at 12 Ehle Sh·eet, Nelliston, New York, 04958. This letter follows verbal notification
 of the suspension action provided by Mr. Salah Ibrahim Deputy District Manager (DDM), to tw6l                 I
fbJrSJ l  Managing Principal, at approximately 9:30 a.m., on August 20, 2026.

FSIS is taking this action in accordance with Title 9 of the Code Federal Regulations (CFR) Rules of
Practice 500.3(b), ba, ed on the determination that Salsabil Meat Processing handled or slaughtered
livestock inhumanely, in violation of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMJA) (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq .), the
Humane Methods of Slaughter Act (HM.SA) (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.), and the relevant regulatory
requirements (9 CFR Part 313).
This letter provides you with information on the Agency 's authority, the facts snppoi1ing FSIS' action,
and infomrntion on how you can respond.
Background/Authority

FSIS is the agency in the U.S. Department of Agriculture responsible for protecting the public's bealth by
ensuring the nation's supply of meat, poultry, and processed egg products for sale and distribution in
commerce is safe, unadulterated, wholesome, and correctly labeled and packaged. FSIS administers and
enforce , among other laws, the FMIA, HMSA, and the statutes' implementing regulations. FSIS has
prescribed rules and regulations required for establishments producing meat/meat food products, including
requirements pertaining to humane handling and slaughtering of livestock (9 CFR Part 313) and other
matters. FSIS has also developed the Rules ofPractice regarding enforcement (9 CFR Part 500). The Rules
of Practice describe the types of enforcement action that FSIS may take and include procedures for taking
a withholding action and/or suspension with or without prior notification and for filing a complaint to
withdraw a Federal Grant of Inspection.


USDA is an equal opp01tunity provider, employer, and lender                                      Page 1 of 4
fbll6l         lManaging Principal                                             Notice of Suspension
Salsa.bi! Meat Processing (Est. M47033)                                            August 20, 2026

Should FSIS personnel document serious or repetitive food safety, sanitation, humane handling, slaughter,
or other violations, FSIS may take enforcement action under 9 CFR Part 500.

Links to the Acts and the Rules of Practice are enclosed for your information and review.

FMIA: https://www.fsis.usda.gov/po1icy/food-safety-acts/federa l-meat-inspection-act
HMSA: https ://www.f sis. usda. gov/po Iicy/food-safety-acts/humane-methods-slau gbter-act
FSIS Rules of Practice: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-9/chapter-IIT/subchapter-E/part-500

Findings/Basis for Action

On August 20, 2026, at approximately 7:25 a.m., while performing a sanitation performance standards
walk.through at Salsabil Meat Processing (Est. M47033), Inspection Program Personnel (IPP) observed
establishment employees transfe1Ting lambs, goats, and cattle from the side yard into the holding
pens. During this activity, IPP observed an establishment employee, who was located approximately
fifteen (15) yards away, stiike a lamb on the back with a metal shovel. The force was visually excessive
when striking the lamb and noticeably loud. The lamb immediately tensed up, arched its back, and ran
forward away from the shovel. IPP immediately infonned the employee not to use such force.
Approximately one (1) minute later, IPP observed the same employee strike another lamb on the back
with the same shovel, and with the same amount of force. lPP immediately took a regulatory control
action on the holding pens by placing U.S. Reject tag # B4378 1850 on the chute leading to the slaughter
area.

Conclusion

On September 9, 2004, FSIS published "Humane Handling and Slaughter Requirements and the Merits
of a Systematic Approach to Meet Such Requirements" in tl1e Federal Register (69 FR 54625).
Subsequently, on October 23, 2013, FSIS issued guidance, tit1ed "FSIS Compliance Guide/or a Systematic
Approach to the Humane Handling ofLivestock," to promote a systematic approach to achieve compliance
with the FSIS requirements for the humane handling and slaughter of livestock. lf an establishment
maintains a robust humane handling program, PSIS can exercise regulatory discretion when an inhumane
handling or slaughter incident is observed.

If an establishment maintains a robust humane handling program, FSIS can exercise regulatory discretion
when an inhumane handling or slaughter incident is observed. Salsabil Meat Processing does not cu1Tently
maintain a written robust humane handling program for consideration.

Based on the findings descdbed above, Salsa.bi! Meat Processing handled or slaughtered livestock
inhumanely, in violation of the FMIA 2 1 U.S.C. 603(b), HMSA 7 U.S.C. 1901 - 1902, and 9 CFR
313.2(a), (b), and (c). In accordance with 9 CFR Pait 500.3(b), FSIS is exercising its authority to withhold
the marks of inspection and suspend inspection services for the Slaughter HACCP process at Salsabil
Meat Processing, effective immedjately.

How to Respond to this Letter

Please be advised that this suspension will remain in effect for the Slaughter HACCP process at Salsabil
Meat Processing until you provide adequate written corrective action and preventative measures to
demonstrate adherence to regulato1y requirements. Your written response is expected to include:
USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer, and lender                              Page 2 of 4
IM<6l          IManaging Principal                                             Notice of Suspension
Salsa.bi! Meat Processing (Est. M47033)                                            August 20, 2026


           •   An evaluation and identification of the nature and cause of the incident.
           •   A q.escription ofthe specific actions taken to eliminate the cause ofthe incident and prevent
               future recurrences.
           •   Any corrective actions, preventative measures, and monitoring activities to ensure
               continued compliance.
           •   Copies of suppo1iing documentation and records maintained and/or associated with the
               proposed corrective actions and preventative measures.

You may submit your response by electronic mail to salah.ibrahim@usda.gov.

You are reminded that, as an operator of a federally inspected establishment, you are expected to comply
with FSIS regulations and to take approp1iate corrective actions to prevent the inhumane handling and
slaughtering oflivestock. Please be advised that failure to respond adequately to these issues may result
in additional enforcement action, including initiation of administrative proceedings to withdraw Federal
inspection services from Salsabil Meat Processing or other appropriate action.

Appeal Rights

You have tbe right to appeal this matter and can do so by contacting:

                                            Mickey Mancini
                        Executive Associate for Regulatory Operations (Acting)
                                      Office of Field Operations
                                  Food Safety and rnspection Service
                                United States Depa.1tment of Agriculture
                          ] 206 Gunter Avenue, Guntersville, Alabama 35976
                                        Phone: (256) 614-3123
                                  Email: mickey.mancini@usda.gov

Pursuant to 9 CPR 500.5(d), you may also request a hearing regarding this determination. Should you
request a hearing, FSIS will file a complaint that will include a request for an expedited hearing. If you
wish to request a hearing regarding this determination, please contact:

                                          Margaret Rath-Bums
                                 Director, Enforcement Operations Staff
                             Office of Investigation, Enforcement and Audit
                                  Food Safety and Inspection Service
                                      Stop Code 3753, Room 2161
                                    1400 Independence A venue, SW
                                         Washington, DC 20250
                                      Fax Number: (202) 245-5097
                                E-mail: EOSCorrespondence@usda.gov




USDA is an equal oppmtunity provider, employer, and lender                                Page 3 of 4
r b1(S)          IManaging Principal                                         Notice of Suspension
  Salsa.bi! Meat Processing (Est. M47033)                                        August 20, 2026


  Small Business Rights

 The Small Business Administration's (SBA) National Ombudsman resolves concerns of uneven or
 excessive federal regulatory enforcement. Reviews are confidential and do not waive the right to pursue
 administrative appeals or any other legal action. 1-888-REG-FAIR/ ombudsman@sba.gov.

 Please note, the National Ombudsman cannot change, stop, or delay an FSIS enforcement action. FSIS­
 regu]ated establishments must use the FSIS appeal and hearing processes to challenge a regulatory
 decision.

 Ifyou have any questions please contact Mr. Salahlbrabim, Deputy District Manager (DDM) by telephone
 at ~(b)(6 )        I
                    or by electronic mail at salah.ibrahim@usda.gov. Additionally, you can contact the
 Philadelphia District Office at (800) 637-668 L.

  Sincerely, SALAH         Digitally signed by
                           SALAH IBRAHIM
                           Date: 2026.08.20
             IBRAH IM      11:52:10- 04'00'

 Mr. George Slobodjian
 District Manager




  USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer, and lender                         Page 4 of 4
