                        FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
                                  WASHINGTON, D.C.

                                              and

                             COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
                                   DIVISION OF BANKS
                                 BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS


                                                    )
                                                    )
                                                    )
                                                    )
In the Matter of                                    )          CONSENT ORDER
                                                    )
MUTUALONE BANK                                      )            FDIC-26-0001b
Framingham, Massachusetts                           )
                                                    )
(Insured State Nonmember Bank)                      )
(Massachusetts State-Chartered Co-operative         )
Bank)                                               )
                                                    )
                                                    )
                                                    )
                                                    )


       The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is the appropriate Federal banking

agency for MutualOne Bank, Framingham, Massachusetts, (Bank) under 12 U.S.C. § 1813(q).

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Division of Banks (Division) is the appropriate State

banking agency for the Bank under the Massachusetts General Laws Chapters 167, 170, and

other applicable statutes.

       The Bank, by and through its duly elected and acting Board of Directors (Board), has

executed a Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order (Consent Agreement),

dated January 13, 2026, that is accepted by the FDIC and the Division. With the Consent

Agreement, the Bank has consented to the issuance of this Consent Order (Order) by the FDIC
                                               1
and the Division, without admitting or denying any charges of violations of law or regulation,

breaches of fiduciary duty, or nonconformance with interagency guidelines incorporated into

Appendix A to Part 364 of the FDIC Rules and Regulations.

       Having determined that the requirements for issuance of an order under 12 U.S.C.

§ l 8l 8(b) and Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 167, 170, and other applicable statutes

have been satisfied, the FDIC and the Division order that:

                                   I. BOARD REQUIREMENTS

       A.     The Board must ensure its supervision and direction of Bank management and

its oversight of the Bank’s activities and performance are commensurate with the size of the

Bank and the nature, scope, and risk of the Bank’s activities. The Board must, at a minimum,

ensure its receipt and review of any updated, revised, or reformulated plans required by the

Order; its adoption of such plans; and the monitoring of the Bank’s implementation and

adherence to such plans.

       B.     Within 90 days from the effective date of this Order, the Board must complete its

independent assessment of Bank management and the Board by a qualified third party to

determine whether the Board, the Board’s Security Committee, the Board’s Compensation

Committee, and the management of the Bank’s lending and credit functions consist of qualified

individuals with expertise commensurate with the Bank’s size and risk profile; and to assess

whether the Board’s Security Committee and the Board’s Compensation Committee operate in

accordance with a current and prudent charter. Such assessment must include, at a minimum:

(a) a review of the duties, responsibilities, qualifications, and remuneration of (i) each of the

Bank’s directors and (ii) each of its senior executive officers with responsibility for the Bank’s

                                                  2
lending and credit functions; and (b) recommendations regarding the Board, the Board’s

Security Committee, the Board’s Compensation Committee, and the management of the Bank’s

lending and credit functions in light of the findings of the June 9, 2025 Report of Examination

issued jointly by the FDIC and the Division (2025 ROE). Such recommendations must

include, for any identified weaknesses, recommendations to remediate them, such as

recommendations for training to improve the strength of existing directors and officers or to

increase the size of the Board or to change the composition of Board committees. A copy of

the assessment must be submitted to the FDIC Deputy Regional Director and the

Commonwealth of Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks (Commissioner of Banks) within

120 days from the effective date of this Order. The Board must adopt a plan to implement the

recommendations of the assessment within 120 days from the effective date of this Order. The

plan and its implementation must be satisfactory to the FDIC Deputy Regional Director and the

Commissioner of Banks as determined at subsequent examinations and/or visitations.

       C.     Within 60 days from the effective date of this Order, the Board must develop and

approve appropriate compensation policies and practices commensurate with the Bank’s size,

earnings, and benefit offerings, that reasonably will prevent (a) contravention of Appendix A to

Part 364 of the FDIC Rules and Regulations as pertaining to excessive compensation and the

prohibition against compensation that could lead to material financial loss; and (b) undue

influence by any director or senior executive officer with respect to (i) their own compensation

and (ii) the Board’s Compensation Committee.

                        II.    REDUCTION OF CLASSIFIED ASSETS

       A.     Within 60 days from the effective date of this Order, the Board must develop and

                                                 3
approve a written plan to reduce the Bank’s risk exposure in each asset adversely classified

“Substandard” or “Doubtful” as of March 31, 2025, including all outstanding loan

commitments, to a level of acceptable asset quality.    For purposes of this provision, “reduce”

means to collect, charge off, or improve the quality of an asset so as to warrant its removal from

adverse classification by the FDIC Deputy Regional Director and the Commissioner of Banks.

In developing the plan mandated by this section, the Board must ensure that qualified Bank

staff will, at a minimum, and with respect to each such adversely classified loan or lease,

review, analyze, and document the financial position of the borrower, including source of

repayment, repayment ability, and alternative repayment sources, as well as the value and

accessibility of any pledged or assigned collateral, and any possible actions to improve the

Bank’s collateral position.

       B.         As of the effective date of this Order, the Bank must not extend, directly or

indirectly, any additional credit to, or for the benefit of, any borrower whose loan or other

credit has been classified “Substandard” or “Doubtful” as of March 31, 2025, and is

uncollected unless the Board has adopted, prior to such extension of credit, a detailed written

statement giving the reasons why such extension of credit is in the best interest of the Bank.

A copy of the statement must be signed by each director and incorporated in the minutes of

the applicable Board meeting and placed in the appropriate loan files.

                        III.    LOAN UNDERWRITING AND REVIEW

       A.         Within 60 days from the effective date of this Order, the Board must ensure

that the Bank’s loan policy is reviewed and improved to satisfactorily address the loan

underwriting and credit administration deficiencies and weaknesses identified in the 2025 ROE.

                                                  4
       B.          Within 60 days from the effective date of this Order, the Bank must improve

loan risk rating and review procedures to ensure timely identification of problem assets. The

procedures must require that loan risk rating and review will be performed by a qualified

individual.   The loan review process must, at a minimum:

                   1.   Ensure timely collection of borrower financial information;

                   2.   Ensure timely collection of updated collateral valuation information

                        when the repayment ability of the borrower becomes uncertain;

                   3.   Ensure accurate and independent application of risk ratings;

                   4.   Identify loans or relationships that warrant special attention of management;

                   5.   Identify violations of laws or regulations and credit and collateral

                        documentation exceptions and track corrective measures; and

                   6.   Identify loans not in conformance with the Bank’s loan policy.

                                  IV.     VIOLATIONS OF LAW

       Within 60 days from the effective date of this Order, the Bank must eliminate and/or correct

all remediable violations of law and regulation set forth in the 2025 ROE.

                                  V.      PROGRESS REPORTS

       Within 45 days of the end of each calendar quarter following the effective date of this

Order, the Board must furnish to the FDIC Deputy Regional Director and the Commissioner of

Banks written progress reports detailing the form, manner, and results of any actions taken to

secure compliance with this Order. Supporting documentation must also be submitted with each

written progress report. All progress reports and other written responses to this Order must be

reviewed and approved by the Board and be made a part of the Board minutes.

                                                    5
                                   VI.     MISCELLANEOUS

       A.     The provisions of this Order do not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent the FDIC,

the Division, or any other federal or state agency or department from taking any other action

against the Bank or any of the Bank’s current or former institution-affiliated parties.

       B.     This Order is effective on the date of issuance, and its provisions will remain

effective and enforceable until a provision is modified, terminated, suspended, or set aside in

writing by the FDIC and the Division.

       C.     The provisions of this Order are binding upon the Bank, its institution-affiliated

parties, and any successors and assigns thereof.

        Issued Under Delegated Authority.

                                     Dated: January 13 , 2026




                                              /s/

                                     By:      Mary A. Barry
                                              Acting Deputy Regional Director
                                              New York Region
                                              Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation


                                              /s/

                                              Hon. Mary L. Gallagher
                                              Commissioner of Banks
                                              Commonwealth of Massachusetts
                                              Division of Banks




                                                    6
