                    FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

                                     WASHINGTON, D.C.


             WASHINGTON DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

                                 OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON


                               )
                               )
In the Matter of:              )
                               )
                                                               CONSENT ORDER
CONNECT COMMUNITY BANK         )
RAYMOND, WASHINGTON            )
                                                                 FDIC-25-0148b
                               )
(INSURED STATE NONMEMBER BANK) )
                               )
                               )


       The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) is the appropriate Federal banking

agency for Connect Community Bank, Raymond, Washington (“Bank”) under Section 3(q) of

the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDI Act”), 12 U.S.C. § 1813(q). The Washington

Department of Financial Institutions (“WDFI”) is the appropriate State banking agency for the

Bank under Title 32 of the Revised Code of Washington (“RCW”).

       The Bank, by and through its duly elected and acting Board of Trustees (“Board”), has

executed a Stipulation to the Issuance of a Consent Order (“Stipulation”), dated May 12, 2026,

2026, that is accepted by the FDIC and the WDFI. With the Stipulation, the Bank has consented,

without admitting or denying any charges of unsafe or unsound banking practices relating to

Board and senior management oversight, capital adequacy, liquidity, earnings and interest rate

risk, to the issuance of this Consent Order (“Order”) by the FDIC and the WDFI pursuant to

Section 8(b)(1) of the FDI Act, and RCW § 32.04.250.
                                                 -2-


        Having determined that the requirements for issuance of an order under Section 8(b) of

the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. § 1818(b), and RCW § 32.04.250 have been satisfied, the FDIC and the

WDFI hereby order that:

                                  QUALIFIED MANAGEMENT

        1.       Within sixty (60) days from the effective date of this Order, the Bank shall

employ and thereafter retain a qualified Chief Financial Officer, Controller, or equivalent, with

the education, experience, and expertise necessary to oversee the Bank’s financial management

functions. The Board shall ensure this officer or party has the policymaking authority and

resources necessary to administer and oversee the Bank’s financial management activities

including financial reporting, budgeting and financial planning, expense monitoring and controls,

liquidity and funds management, asset-liability management, capital planning and controls,

internal accounting controls, and ensuring the preparation and provision of accurate and timely

financial reporting to the Board. The Board shall provide written notification to the Regional

Director of the FDIC’s San Francisco Regional Office (“Regional Director”) and the Director of

the Washington Department of Financial Institutions Division of Banks (“Director”) prior to the

appointment or engagement, including a description of the officer’s or party’s qualifications,

experience, authority, and scope of responsibilities, in accordance with paragraph (3) below.

        2.       The Bank shall have and retain management with the qualifications and

experience commensurate with their duties and responsibilities at the Bank. Management for the

purposes of this Order shall be defined as any executive who participates or has authority to

participate in major policymaking functions. The qualifications of management shall be assessed

on its ability to:

                 (a)    comply with the requirements of this Order;
                                                -3-


               (b)     operate the Bank in a safe and sound manner;

               (c)     comply with applicable laws and regulations; and

               (d)     restore all aspects of the Bank to a safe and sound condition, including

                       capital adequacy, earnings, liquidity, and interest rate risk.

       3.      During the life of this Order, the Bank shall notify the Regional Director and the

Director in writing of the resignation or termination of any of the Bank’s Board members or

senior executive officers, as defined within Subpart F of Part 303 of the FDIC Rules and

Regulations. Prior to the addition of any individual to the Board or the employment of any

individual as a senior executive officer, the Bank shall comply with the requirements of Section

32 of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. § 1831i, and Subpart F of Part 303 of the FDIC Rules and

Regulations, 12 C.F.R. §§ 303.100–303.104, and the same requirements of the State of

Washington for prior notification and approval.

                                   BOARD PARTICIPATION

       4.      The Board must immediately increase its supervision, direction, and oversight of

the Bank, assuming full responsibility for the approval of sound policies and objectives and for

the supervision of all the Bank’s activities. This supervision, direction, and oversight shall

include meetings to be held no less frequently than monthly at which, at a minimum, the

following areas shall be reviewed and approved: reports of income and expenses; new, overdue,

renewal, insider, charged-off, and recovered loans; investment activity; liquidity and funds

managements activities; operating policies; individual committee actions; expense-control

initiatives and progress toward measurable overhead reductions; interest rate risk reports,

including compliance with Board-approved limits and corrective actions for any breaches;

capital planning; capital adequacy projections and specific capital-strengthening initiatives; and,
                                                -4-


all significant policy exceptions, including exceptions to limits, thresholds, or tolerance across all

operational and risk-management areas. The Board minutes shall document these reviews,

discussions, and approvals. The minutes shall specifically describe: (1) any identified exceptions

or limit breaches; (2) the corrective actions taken or directed; (3) progress on expense-reduction

and capital building measures; and (4) the names of any dissenting Board members.

                                             CAPITAL

       5.      (a)     Within one-hundred and twenty (120) days from the effective date of this

Order, unless extended in writing by the Regional Director and Director, the Bank shall achieve

and thereafter maintain its Tier1 capital in such an amount to ensure that the Bank’s “Leverage

ratio” equals or exceeds 8 percent, as defined in Section 324.10(a)(2) of the FDIC’s Rules and

Regulations, 12 C.F.R. § 324.10(a)(2) .

               (b)     Within sixty (60) days from the effective date of this Order, the Bank shall

formulate an acceptable written capital plan (“Capital Plan”), subject to the review and approval

of the Regional Director and the Director that details the manner in which the Bank will achieve

and maintain a “Leverage ratio” that equals or exceeds 8 percent. The Capital Plan shall address,

at a minimum, targeted capital level ratios, potential sources of additional capital, timeframes for

raising capital from such sources, and the description of any triggering events or condition that

would cause the implementation of contingency aspects of the Capital Plan.

               (c)     The level of capital to be maintained during the life of this Order shall be

in addition to a fully funded allowance for credit losses, the adequacy of which shall be

satisfactory to the Regional Director and the Director as determined at subsequent examinations

and/or visitations.
                                                 -5-


               (d)     For the purposes of this Order, all terms relating to capital shall have the

meanings and be calculated in accordance with the applicable FDIC’s Rules and Regulations

concerning Capital Adequacy (currently at 12 C.F.R. Part 324).

                             LIQUIDITY/FUNDS MANAGEMENT

       6.      Within ninety (90) days from the effective date of this Order, the Board shall

develop and implement a comprehensive asset/liability management policy. The policy and its

implementation shall be in a form and manner acceptable to the FDIC and WDFI as determined

at subsequent examinations or visitations. The policy shall establish standards consistent with

prudent banking operations by giving specific consideration to the following:

               (a)     Liquidity Cash Flow Forecasting: Management should re-evaluate key

inputs and assumptions for the cash flow forecasting tool to ensure that the outputs can be relied

upon to manage and monitor the Bank’s current liquidity and risk. The underlying assumptions

should be reasonable, appropriate, and adequately documented. Cash flow forecasts shall align

with established liquidity limits, and results shall be reported to the Board at least monthly, and

at each regularly scheduled Board meeting.

               (b)     Liquidity Stress Testing: Management shall ensure that stress scenarios

reflect the institution’s actual risk profile, including potential large deposit outflows, deposit

concentration risk, loss of borrowing capacity, and deterioration in financial condition. Stress

tests shall be used to identify potential liquidity exposures and provide meaningful information

on how the balance sheet may change during a stress event. Based on the results of these stress

scenarios, management shall develop realistic and feasible action plans that identify appropriate

funding strategies, specify the sequence of funding sources to be used for each scenario,
                                                 -6-


incorporate minimum on-balance-sheet liquidity needs, and outline the operational steps needed

to execute those actions.

                              EARNINGS, PROFIT PLAN & BUDGET

       7.      (a)     Within ninety (90) days from the effective date of this Order, the Bank

shall develop and implement a written expense and profit plan covering a three-year projection

period. The profit plan must be expressly tied to the Bank’s Board-approved Strategic Plan and

strategic objectives, and must demonstrate how projected earnings reflect those objectives,

including targeted market segments, product lines, risk tolerances, balance-sheet composition,

capital preservation and augmentation, and liquidity posture. The plan and its implementation

shall be in a form and manner acceptable to the FDIC and WDFI as determined at subsequent

examinations or visitations. The plan shall establish specific strategies and remedial measures to

improve the profitability of the Bank. At a minimum, the plan shall address the following items:

                       (i)      The major areas in which the Board will seek to improve the

Bank’s operating performance;

                       (ii)     a plan to control overhead and other expenses;

                       (iii)    a written budget for the ensuing twelve (12) months period which

incorporates realistic and comprehensive assumptions (Annual Budget).

                       (iv)     a budget review process which compares actual income and

expenses with projections; and

                       (v)      a description of the operating assumptions that form the basis for,

and adequately support, major projected income and expense components.
                                                -7-


                (b)    Thereafter, the Bank shall formulate such a written expense and

profitability plan within thirty (30) days of the beginning of each subsequent fiscal year and

submit it to the FDIC and WDFI for review and comment.

                                    INTEREST RATE RISK

       8.       (a)    Within sixty (60) days from the effective date of this Order, the Board

shall review and update the Bank’s interest rate risk (“IRR”) policies, procedures, and

management information systems (“MIS”). The updated framework shall ensure that IRR policy

exceptions and breaches are promptly identified, documented, and escalated to the Board with

supporting analysis from management.

                       (i)     Each exception or breach shall be accompanied by a written

corrective action plan that identifies root causes, sets measurable milestones, assigns responsible

parties, and includes defined timelines for completion.

                       (ii)    The Board’s acceptance of any exception or breach, and any

related corrective action plan, shall be documented in the Board minutes, including the rationale

for acceptance and any associated risk-mitigation measures.

                       (iii)   At least quarterly, the Board shall review the status and

effectiveness of all outstanding IRR exceptions and corrective actions and shall ensure recurring

or unremediated exceptions are re-evaluated for financial impact.

                       (iv)    MIS shall be enhanced to provide timely, accurate, and auditable

identification, tracking, and reporting of IRR exposures, exceptions, and remediation progress.

                (b)    The Board shall ensure full and ongoing implementation of the updated

policies, procedures, and MIS and shall confirm compliance with this provision in the minutes of

its meetings.
                                                -8-


                                     PROGRESS REPORTS

       9.      Within thirty (30) days of the end of the first quarter following the effective date

of this Order, and within thirty (30) days of the end of each quarter thereafter, the Bank shall

furnish written progress reports to the Regional Director and the Director. Progress reports

should address each provision of the Order and detail the form, manner, results, and dates of

actions taken. The Board shall review and certify the accuracy of the reports prior to submission.

Such reports may be discontinued when the corrections required by this Order have been

accomplished and the Regional Director and the Director have released the Bank in writing from

making further reports.

       The provisions of this Order shall not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent the FDIC, the

WDFI, or any other federal or state agency or department from taking any other action against

the Bank or any of the Bank’s current or former institution-affiliated parties, as that term is

defined in Section 3(u) of the FDI Act, 12 U.S.C. § 1813(u).

       This Order will become effective upon its issuance by the FDIC and the WDFI.

       The provisions of this Order shall be binding upon the Bank, its institution-affiliated

parties, and any successors and assigns thereof.

       The provisions of this Order shall remain effective and enforceable except to the extent

that and until such time as any provision has been modified, terminated, suspended, or set aside

by the FDIC and the WDFI.

//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
                                                -9-




      Issued pursuant to delegated authority.

      Dated this 13th day of May, 2026.



/s/                                                   /s/

 Perissa Ali Clark                                    Matt Harvey
 Acting Deputy Regional Director                      Director of Banks
 Division of Risk Management Supervision              Washington Department of Financial
 San Francisco Region                                 Institutions
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
