                                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                                     FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
                                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20580


    Office of the Director
Bureau of Consumer Protection
                                                  July 6, 2026

Via Federal Express

Vtron Inc. d/b/a Vtron Lasers
ATTN: Muntaser Elgaouny, Chief Executive Officer
154 W. Foothill Blvd., #321
Upland, CA 91786

          Re:       Warning Letter Regarding “Made in the USA” Representations

Dear Mr. Elgaouny:

        The Federal Trade Commission (“Commission”) is the nation’s consumer protection
agency, responsible for protecting Americans from deceptive, unfair, and anticompetitive business
practices without unduly burdening legitimate business activity. As part of that mission, the
Commission works to educate businesses, industries, and market participants about compliance
with the laws and rules it enforces, and where necessary, initiates investigations and enforcement
actions.

        The Commission is committed to protecting American consumers and businesses from
false, misleading, or unsubstantiated “Made in the USA” representations.1 To this end, the
Commission enforces multiple laws and rules that address false, misleading, or unsubstantiated
“Made in the USA” representations and similar U.S. origin claims, including Section 5 of the FTC
Act,2 Section 45a,3 other laws and rules addressing specific product categories,4 and the Made in
USA Labeling Rule (“MUSA Labeling Rule”).5

1
  See Testimony of the Fed. Trade Comm’n, Before the Comm. on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, U.S.
Senate, at 28-29 (Apr. 15, 2026), https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/p994811-ftc-oversight-testimony-
senate-commerce-committee-2026.pdf; see also Press Release, Fed. Trade Comm’n, FTC Announces “Made in the
USA” Sweep, Including Three Law Enforcement Actions to Protect American Consumers and Businesses (Apr. 14,
2026) (announcing settlements to resolve enforcement actions against electronic dartboard manufacturer, American
flag and flagpole retailer, and shoemaker), https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2026/04/ftc-
announces-made-usa-sweep-including-three-law-enforcement-actions-protect-american-consumers; Press Release,
Fed. Trade Comm’n, Federal Trade Commission Chairman Andrew N. Ferguson Issues Statement on ‘Made in the
USA’ Month (July 1, 2025), https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2025/07/federal-trade-
commission-chairman-andrew-n-ferguson-issues-statement-made-usa-month.
2
  15 U.S.C. § 45.
3
  15 U.S.C. § 45a; see also Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXII,
§ 320933, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 2135.
4
  See, e.g., Textile Fiber Products Identification Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 70-70k; Rules and Regulations under the Textile
Fiber Products Identification Act, 16 C.F.R. Part 303; Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, 15 U.S.C. §§ 68-68j; and
Rule and Regulations Under Fur Products Labeling Act, 16 C.F.R. Part 301.
5
  16 C.F.R. Part 323.
Vtron Inc. d/b/a Vtron Lasers
July 6, 2026


         Section 5(a) of the FTC Act prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting
commerce.6 A representation is deceptive if it is material and would likely mislead consumers
acting reasonably under the circumstances.7 Under the FTC Act, a product may be advertised as
“Made in the USA” (or with other similar statements of U.S. origin) when “‘all or virtually all’ of
the ingredients are domestic; that said, the product must contain no more than a de minimis amount
of foreign content and have ‘been last substantially transformed in the United States.’”8 Similarly,
it is a violation of the MUSA Labeling Rule and Section 45a to label any product as “Made in the
United States” unless the final assembly or processing of the product occurs in the United States;
all significant processing that goes into the product occurs in the United States; and all or virtually
all ingredients or components of the product are made and sourced in the United States.9

        Available information obtained by Commission staff suggests that Vtron Inc. d/b/a Vtron
Lasers (“Vtron Lasers”) promotes certain products, such as laser machines used for engraving,
welding, and cutting jewelry and precious metals (“Product”), as being made in the United States.
For example, Vtron Lasers has made unqualified “Made in the USA” or similar U.S. origin claims
on its website, social media accounts and posts, and at trade shows that:

            the Product is “MANUFACTURED IN THE U.S.A.”;
            the Product is “Made in the USA”; and
            the Product is “Proudly built in the USA, our solutions incorporate the highest quality
             components to deliver exceptional performance and reliability.”

Based on information Commission staff has reviewed, it has reason to believe that Vtron Lasers
may be importing, in whole or in significant part, the Product despite making these unqualified
U.S. origin claims. Unless Vtron Lasers can adequately substantiate that “all or virtually all” of
the Product is made in the United States, Vtron Lasers’ claims may violate the FTC Act, MUSA
Labeling Rule, and/or Section 45a.

      While this letter does not reflect a formal determination that Vtron Lasers’ “Made in the
USA” claims violate the law, you are advised to immediately come into compliance with the FTC

6
  See 15 U.S.C. § 45(a).
7
  See Fed. Trade Comm’n, Policy Statement on Deception (1983) (appended to Cliffdale Assocs., Inc., 103 F.T.C. 110
(1984)). Among other requirements, the FTC Act requires that representations be truthful, non-misleading, and
adequately substantiated. See id.; FTC v. Direct Mktg. Concepts, Inc., 624 F.3d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 2010).
8
  See FTC v. Cardiff, No. 5:18-cv-02104-SJO-PLA, Dkt. #511 at *23 (C.D. Cal. Oct. 9, 2020) (citing Fed. Trade
Comm’n, Issuance of Enforcement Policy Statement on “Made in USA” and Other U.S. Origin Claims, 62 Fed. Reg.
63756 (Dec. 2, 1997), https://www.ftc.gov/legal-library/browse/enforcement-policy-statement-us-origin-claims).
The Commission analyzes several factors to determine whether a product is “all or virtually all” made in the United
States, including the proportion of the product’s total manufacturing costs attributable to U.S. parts and processing,
how far removed any foreign content is from the finished product, and the importance of the foreign content or
processing to the overall function of the product. See 62 Fed. Reg. at 63768-69.
9
  16 C.F.R. § 323.2; see also 15 U.S.C. § 45a (“To the extent any person introduces, delivers for introduction, sells,
advertises, or offers for sale in commerce a product with a ‘Made in the U.S.A.’ or ‘Made in America’ label, or the
equivalent thereof, in order to represent that such product was in whole or substantial part of domestic origin, such
label shall be consistent with decisions and orders of the Federal Trade Commission issued pursuant to section 45 of
this title.”)


                                                          2
Vtron Inc. d/b/a Vtron Lasers
July 6, 2026
Act, MUSA Labeling Rule, and Section 45a. Violations of these laws and rules enforced by the
Commission could subject Vtron Lasers to legal action and court injunctions. In addition,
violations of the MUSA Labeling Rule could result in an enforcement action in which the
Commission seeks payment of redress to injured American consumers and/or the imposition of
civil penalties of up to $53,088 per violation.10

       This letter is not intended to be a comprehensive statement of concerns that may exist with
Vtron Lasers’ “Made in the USA” claims for the Product. As always, it is Vtron Lasers’
responsibility to comply with all requirements of federal law, including Section 5 of the FTC Act,
MUSA Labeling Rule, Section 45a, and other laws and rules enforced by the Commission. You
should immediately review your “Made in USA” representations, labeling, and advertising for the
Product, and cease and desist any conduct that could violate these legal requirements.

         Thank you for your attention to this matter. Within five (5) business days of receipt of this
letter, please contact Michelle Schaefer (mschaefer@ftc.gov) to discuss Vtron Lasers’ plan to
come into compliance with the FTC Act, MUSA Labeling Rule, and Section 45a.

                                               Respectfully,



                                               Christopher G. Mufarrige
                                               Director, Bureau of Consumer Protection




10
     15 U.S.C. § 57b(a)(1), (b).


                                                  3
