    NOTICE OF DECISION TO IMPOSE A FINANCIAL PENALTY PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 27A(5) OF THE ELECTRICITY ACT 1989
    Date: 25 JULY 2023


Decision of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to impose a financial penalty, following
an investigation into SSE Generation Limited (“SSE”) and its compliance with its obligations
under the electricity generation licence (Standard Licence Condition 20A, known as the
Transmission Constraint Licence Condition, or “TCLC”).


1. SUMMARY

1.1     With this document, we the Authority1 are giving notice under S27A(5) of the Electricity
        Act 1989 of our decision to impose a penalty on SSE, in relation to a breach of the
        TCLC. In it, we have set out the acts or omissions which constitute the relevant
        contraventions and the other facts which justify the imposition of a penalty on SSE and
        the amount of the penalty chosen.

1.2     Our investigation was opened in October 2021, and concerns the bid prices submitted
        by SSE in the Balancing Mechanism (“BM”) for Foyers pumped storage power station
        (“Foyers”). It focused on a decision taken by SSE in May 2020 to make the price that it
        required the system operator to pay in order to reduce Foyers’ output significantly
        more expensive so as to bring Foyers in line with what SSE believed was the market
        practice of other pumped storage operators and generate more profit. This included in
        periods of transmission constraint, where the system operator had limited options
        available other than bidding Foyers down.

1.3     Following our investigation, we have concluded that the bids submitted in accordance
        with the revised pricing policy resulted in SSE obtaining a profit which was significantly
        greater than that which it would have obtained absent the transmission constraint, and
        so was in breach of the TCLC.




1
 In this Notice we use interchangeably “the Authority”, “Ofgem” and “we” to refer to the Gas
and Electricity Markets Authority.
1.4   SSE has admitted that it breached the TCLC, and indicated its desire to settle the
      investigation, in line with the process described in our enforcement guidelines. 2

1.5   As set out in section 4 of this Notice, we consider that the imposition of a penalty for
      the contraventions is justified in this case. Among other reasons, this is because the
      breach caused damage to the interests of consumers, and a penalty is necessary to
      deliver credible deterrence and visible and meaningful consequences for breaching the
      TCLC.

1.6   In determining the amount of the penalty we have taken into consideration the factors
      set out in the relevant penalty statement, including the serious nature of the breach,
      the financial harm suffered by customers as a result of the contravention, and the
      existence of aggravating factors. We have also considered representations received in
      response to the notice of our proposal to impose a penalty on SSE. We consider the
      penalty to be reasonable in all of the circumstances of this case.

1.7   Having considered all of the circumstances, we consider that a payment into the
      consumer redress fund3 is of greater benefit to energy consumers than if a significant
      financial penalty were to be imposed. Accordingly, we consider it reasonable to impose
      a financial penalty of £1, provided SSE pays the sum of £9,780,000.00 (less £1) in
      redress.

1.8   In these circumstances and mindful of our principal objective to protect the interests of
      existing and future consumers, we hereby give notice under section 27A(5) of the
      Electricity Act 1989 of our decision to impose a penalty of £1 in respect of the
      contraventions set out above. This is subject to SSE paying £9,780,000.00 (less £1)
      into Ofgem’s consumer redress fund. The payment of the amounts must be made by 5
      September 2023.




2
  https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/publications/enforcement-guidelines
3
  We have appointed an expert independent third party to manage the allocation of voluntary
redress payments from licensees to charitable organisations.
https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/publications-and-updates/authority-guidance-allocation-redress-
funds
2     BACKGROUND

The Balancing Mechanism

2.1     The BM is the primary tool used by the Electricity System Operator (“ESO”) to co-
        ordinate and direct the flow of electricity onto and over the electricity transmission
        network. Over £2bn was spent by the ESO on balancing in the BM in the year to March
        2023,4 with the costs eventually recovered from consumers via balancing charges.

2.2     In the BM, parties to the Balancing and Settlement Code – including all large electricity
        generators – submit one or more pairs of bids and offers. Bids represent the price at
        which the party would be willing to decrease its generation or increase its consumption
        of electricity for a given unit in a given half-hourly delivery period, while offers
        represent the price at which the party would be willing to increase its generation or
        decrease its consumption of electricity. Bid and offer prices are specified in £ per
        megawatt hour (£/MWh) of reduced or additional output or consumption that the ESO
        requires that a unit deliver (relative to the unit’s expected output or consumption prior
        to the action being taken).

2.3     A unit’s expected level of output or consumption in each half-hourly settlement period
        – prior to any actions taken in the BM – is indicated through parties’ submissions of
        Physical Notifications (“PNs”), made in accordance with the Grid Code. The prevailing
        PNs at the point which is one hour prior to delivery (referred to as gate closure) are
        confirmed by the ESO as Final Physical Notifications (“FPNs”), and used for the
        purposes of taking any required balancing actions in the BM. For each half-hourly
        settlement period, the ESO may accept various sets of bids and offers, making
        payments to (or receiving payments from) different parties in exchange for them
        agreeing to alter their generation or consumption as compared to their FPNs.




4
 Source: ESO monthly balancing services summary, February 2023. The amount spent in the
BM in the year to March 2021 (the period on which our investigation has centred) was over
£1bn.
The TCLC

2.4   The ESO uses the BM, amongst other balancing markets, to address any expected
      energy imbalances over the transmission system as well as to manage any
      transmission constraints which may arise on the network.

2.5   Transmission constraints as defined in the TCLC are any limits on the ability of the
      transmission system (or any part of it) to transmit power from where it is supplied to
      where it is needed, arising as a result of factors such as (but not limited to) the
      thermal rating of assets forming part of the transmission network, or the need to
      maintain voltage on the system, or the need to maintain the transient and dynamic
      stability of plant and equipment connected to the system.

2.6   Transmission constraints may occur because of design limitations of the transmission
      network or because of outage patterns, including the need to deal with credible failures
      of parts of the system or equipment connected to it and to ensure that they do not
      have serious consequences for safety or security and quality of supply. The ESO will
      often accept bids and offers in the BM to help resolve transmission constraints, and
      ensure that power flows across the transmission system remain within the necessary
      bounds to ensure the security and quality of supply and safe operation of the system.

2.7   The TCLC requires that generation licensees must not obtain or seek to obtain an
      excessive benefit from a reduction in electricity generation in relation to a transmission
      constraint period. In practice, this means that – where a transmission constraint as
      defined in the TCLC occurs, and where the generator intends to export power –
      generators must not submit bid prices in the BM at a level which would result in them
      obtaining an excessive benefit, were that bid subsequently accepted by the ESO.

2.8   The TCLC applies to reductions in electricity generation only. Therefore it would not
      apply in situations where a generator was not due to export any power to the NETS in
      a given settlement period (ie its FPN was zero) or was due to import power from the
      transmission system (ie its FPN had a negative value), as in those cases a bid in the
      BM to (further) import power would not constitute a “… reduction in generation”.

2.9   The objective of the TCLC is to protect against the exploitation of market power by
      generators operating in the presence of transmission constraints. Transmission
      constraints routinely lead to either individual generators or groups of generators in
       particular areas holding a position of market power in one or more settlement periods,
       with the ESO having limited options to manage the constraint other than reaching an
       agreement with the owners of those specific units to reduce their planned output in
       those periods. If generators were free to take advantage of this market power in their
       agreements with the ESO, this would increase balancing costs (which are ultimately
       passed onto consumers) and create harmful incentives – encouraging further
       generation in those same areas or by generators with the same characteristics,
       exacerbating the constraints, and increasing system costs further.

Foyers pumped storage power station

2.10   Foyers is a pumped storage power station in Northern Scotland, operating under the
       generation licence of SSE Generation Limited (company number 02310571). It has two
       150MW reversible pumping turbines, providing a total capacity of 300MW. In periods of
       high demand (and so high prices), water is released from the upper reservoir (Loch
       Mhor) and the units export power to the transmission system, generating revenue for
       SSE. The upper reservoir is then refilled either by rainfall, or by SSE paying (or being
       paid) to consume power in order to pump water to the upper reservoir.


 Figure 1: Image of Foyers pumped storage power station




 Source: Foyers hydro scheme | SSE Renewables
2.11   One implication of the transmission constraints created by the thermal limits of the
       transmission system is to give rise to restrictions on the amount of power which can be
       transferred between different areas of the network, creating what are known as
       “constraint boundaries”, each with a particular transfer limit. Foyers is located behind a
       number of key thermal constraint boundaries between the North and South of Great
       Britain, including:


       •   The SHARN3 boundary (B7) in Northern England;


       •   The SCOTEX or ‘Cheviot’ boundary (B6) between Scotland and England;


       •   The SSE-GRMO and NKILGRMO boundaries (B5) between Central and Southern
           Scotland


       •   The SSE-SP2 boundary (B4) between the SSEN Transmission and SP transmission
           networks


       •   The SSEN-S North to South SSEN Transmission boundary (B2); and


       •   The SSENWEX boundary (B1a) in North West Scotland.


2.12   It is common for anticipated power flows as reflected in FPNs to exceed the transfer
       limits of the boundaries that Foyers is situated behind and for the ESO to therefore
       need to instruct SSE to reduce Foyers’ generation (or instruct it to pump) to ensure
       that the equipment carrying power from Northern Scotland to demand centres further
       south is not overloaded. This is particularly the case in periods of high wind generation
       in Scotland. Foyers was the generator in Great Britain with the 9 th greatest number of
       system flagged bid acceptances in the year to March 2021, with a total volume of
       219GWh.5

Our investigation

2.13   In Winter 2019/20, Foyers was taken offline for maintenance. In May 2020, when it
       returned to (partial) operation, SSE changed its approach to setting bid prices for
       Foyers in the BM. This change was made in order to bring Foyers in line with what SSE
       believed was the market practice of other pumped storage operators, and to generate
       more profit. In making the change, SSE was aware of the transmission constraint
       regularly affecting Foyers, and so the relevance of the TCLC to how it set its bid prices.

2.14   Under the new pricing policy, SSE commonly submitted bids at a price point close to
       minus £60/MWh – ie requiring the ESO to pay it around £60 for each MWh by which it
       was asked to reduce its output. As shown in Figure 2, the prices in this period were
       substantially more expensive than the bid prices SSE had typically submitted
       previously. This approach to pricing continued up to the end of March 2021,
       subsequent to which SSE’s bid prices became less expensive (as wholesale prices rose)
       and negative prices less common.




5
  Where the ESO takes actions in the BM to manage certain transmission constraints (including
thermal limits), these are “system flagged”, allowing such actions to be identified in publicly
available balancing data.
Figure 2: The average price of Foyers’ accepted bids, 1 Jan 2011 – 31 March 2023




Source: Ofgem analysis of BMRS data.
Notes:
1.   The grey shaded area shows the period from May 2020 to March 2021 that our investigation has focused on.
2.   The monthly weighted average bid price is calculated by taking the price of each bid acceptance for either
     Foyers unit in £/MWh, and then weighting by the accepted bid volume in MWh, before averaging over the
     month.
3.   Individual bid acceptances are plotted as crosses for each day. Price points with more bid acceptances are
     darker.
4.   A small minority of bid acceptances occurred in the period outside of the axis range – these are not shown



     2.15    In April 2021 we contacted SSE asking for an explanation of the change to its bid prices
             starting May 2020, given its position behind a transmission constraint and its
             obligations under the TCLC. On 4 October 2021, we opened a formal investigation into
             whether SSE had failed to comply with the requirements of the TCLC.

     2.16    In the period from October 2021 to June 2022 we issued a number of notices to SSE
             requiring it to provide information to allow us to assess whether there had been a
             breach of the TCLC. In August 2022, we issued to SSE a summary statement of initial
             findings setting out that we had reached the provisional conclusion that it had breached
        the TCLC in relation to the bid prices submitted for Foyers in respect of the period from
        May 2020 to March 2021, and may have continued to breach the TCLC from April 2021
        onwards.

2.17    In October 2022, SSE submitted its response to the summary statement. In March
        2023, SSE contacted Ofgem to note that it was willing to admit a breach, make a
        payment to offset the associated consumer detriment, and pay a penalty. On 6 June
        2023 we published details of our findings and notice of our intention to impose a
        penalty on SSE, and invited any representations on that proposal.

3     THE BREACH

3.1     Following our investigation, we have concluded that SSE’s revised pricing policy was
        such that, in the period from May 2020 to March 2021, SSE obtained an excessive
        benefit during periods in which a transmission constraint occurred, in breach of the
        TCLC. Additionally, although it was much less common for SSE to submit negative bid
        prices after March 2021, the nature of its pricing policy was such that SSE may have
        continued to breach the TCLC even after this date.

Description of the breach

3.2     In order to assess the excessiveness (or otherwise) of the bid prices submitted by SSE
        for Foyers, we considered whether those prices were set at a level which meant that
        the benefit that SSE obtained or sought to obtain in relation to transmission constraint
        periods was significantly greater than the benefit it would have obtained in the absence
        of any transmission constraint, and therefore whether those bid prices were excessive.

3.3     The benefit that SSE obtained or sought to obtain through its bid prices for Foyers is
        the profit associated with those bids (or the implied profit, had those bids been
        accepted). We are unable to directly observe what bids the ESO would have accepted
        in the BM absent any transmission constraint, and the prices that it would have paid for
        those reductions in generation. However, we are able to use a number of different
        benchmarks to form a view on what benefit SSE would have been likely to be able to
        obtain absent the constraint.

3.4     In our assessment, we placed particular weight on the fact that from May 2020, SSE’s
        bid prices for Foyers were primarily set with reference to the bid prices of selected
      other generators, rather than the costs and benefits of being bid down. This included in
      periods in which a transmission constraint existed.

3.5   By linking its bid prices for Foyers to those of selected other generators (in this
      instance, Cruachan – another pumped storage power station in Northern Scotland,
      itself frequently bid down due to constraints – and SSE group’s own wind generation
      units), without regard to the costs and benefits it itself incurred when being bid down,
      SSE’s policy failed to put any controls on the level of benefit it would obtain on bids in
      transmission constraint periods. This approach by its nature created an intrinsic risk of
      breaching the TCLC.

3.6   The revised pricing strategy was particularly likely to breach the TCLC because the
      generators most commonly referenced by SSE when setting its prices were themselves
      regularly bid down due to transmission constraints, as would have been apparent to
      SSE given the significant proportion of those generators’ bids that were system
      flagged. In January 2023, Drax Pumped Storage Limited (“Drax”) agreed to pay an
      amount of £6.12m into the consumer redress fund to reflect its admission that it had
      submitted excessively expensive bid prices for Cruachan in the period from 1 January
      2019 to 31 July 2022. In contrast to SSE, a formal investigation into Drax’s compliance
      with the TCLC was not active at the time – the payment was made in lieu of a formal
      investigation being opened.

3.7   SSE’s approach to pricing contrasted to that which had been used at the start of 2017
      – and that which is used for wind generation assets in the wider SSE group portfolio –
      according to which bid prices should take into account the costs and benefits of
      providing the reduction in generation.

3.8   Our analysis showed that the bid prices that SSE submitted allowed it to generate a
      profit on its bids in periods in which transmission constraints occurred which appeared
      significant when compared to a number of possible benchmarks (including SSE’s
      revenue; historic profit levels; and the profit earned on bids for other units operated by
      SSE group). SSE itself noted in its annual reporting for 2020/21 that Foyers had
      “achieved exceptional performance” in the period of concern.

3.9   We also placed weight in our assessment on evidence that SSE’s prices were
      significantly more expensive both than they had been in previous periods; and
       significantly more expensive than those of the two Welsh pumped storage units in GB
       which – unlike Foyers – were not routinely bid down to manage a transmission
       constraint in the period. Its prices in transmission constraint periods were also
       significantly more expensive than the prices at which it had bids accepted when a
       transmission constraint did not occur. Crucially, none of these price differentials
       appeared to be explained by differences or changes in the costs and benefits to Foyers
       of being bid down.

3.10   While its average bid price became less expensive from April 2021 onwards as
       wholesale power prices rose, SSE told us that it continued to take the same broad
       approach to setting its bid prices for Foyers in transmission constraint periods – ie it set
       these prices with reference to those of selected other generators frequently bid down
       due to a transmission constraint, and particularly Cruachan. Given this, we consider
       there to be a risk that SSE continued to be in breach of the TCLC even after May 2020
       to March 2021 (the period on which our investigation has centred), due to the lack of
       controls in its pricing policy to ensure that its bids in transmission constraint periods in
       which it intended to generate were set at a level that ensured that the benefit to SSE
       did not exceed what would be expected in the absence of a transmission constraint.

Consumer impact

3.11   We considered the impact of SSE’s excessive pricing, and particularly what SSE gained
       as a result of the breach and, related, any detriment suffered by consumers and other
       market participants.

3.12   The most direct impact of the breach is the cost to the ESO – and ultimately consumers
       – arising from SSE having a higher volume of bids accepted at more expensive prices
       than would have been expected absent any transmission constraint. This is distinct
       from any indirect effects of the breach via, for example, the potential impact on other
       generators’ bid prices. The impact is equivalent to the gain earned by SSE in relation to
       its excessive bids.

3.13   To assess this direct impact, we considered what SSE’s prices might have been, had
       those prices properly reflected the costs and benefits of being bid down (and a
       reasonable level of profit), and not been excessive. As set out above, SSE itself did not
       set its bid prices for Foyers in individual settlement periods with reference to its
       expectations of the incurred costs, opportunity costs or avoided costs associated with
       reductions in generation in those periods, and so was unable to produce systematic
       estimate of these costs and benefits which could be used for this analysis. Therefore,
       we estimated these costs and benefits ourselves.

3.14   Where Foyers had a bid accepted in the period in question it would have enjoyed
       significant benefits. These would primarily have comprised:

       (a) any bid revenues received from the ESO (driven by its bid prices which – as set out
          above – were commonly close to minus £60/MWh);

       (b) avoided balancing charges (which in the period of concern were levied on metered
          output – and so were “avoided” where SSE had a bid accepted reducing generation
          at Foyers); and

       (c) the value associated with additional water in the upper reservoir (which would allow
          SSE to sell power in subsequent periods without any further requirement to pump).

3.15   The box below shows an example of the benefits to SSE of Foyers being bid down due
       to a transmission constraint on a day in September 2020.
Example 1: 2 September 2020, Foyers unit 1

   1. ESO is required to bid Foyers down                   2. This gave Foyers capacity to sell power for
  due to thermal constraint for successive                 an extended period (the grey line shows the
     periods across the day (red area)                      unit due to export 150MW for entire period
                                                                     from 06:00 to 22:00 GMT)




                            3. Foyers is able to capture the bid price of -£59/MWh, and to sell its
                           additional generation into the wholesale market at prices of £30/MWh to
                          £60/MWh – while avoiding balancing charges of £5-£10/MWh (not shown)




3.16   A bid acceptance may also have resulted in certain costs. Likely to be most significant
       is the potential opportunity cost to SSE associated with a reduced ability to pump in
       subsequent periods (where profitable opportunities to pump either in the BM or
       wholesale markets existed), due to reduced capacity in the upper reservoir compared
       to the situation absent the bid having been accepted. This opportunity cost is illustrated
       in the box below for two days in June 2020. At times, the opportunity cost could
       materialise in the form of SSE choosing to sell power in periods with negative wholesale
       prices in order to keep the water level in the upper reservoir at the optimal level.
Example 2: 5 and 6 June 2020, Foyers unit 2


         1. ESO required to bid Foyers             2. One implication is that Foyers has a reduced capacity
        down due to thermal constraint             to pump at a profit when wholesale prices subsequently
             for successive periods                go negative, due to reduced capacity in upper reservoir




                      3. SSE also potentially loses out on an opportunity to pump in the BM at a even
                      greater profit (ie a price of minus £58/MWh) for the period where its maximum
                        import limit (MIL) is zero (subject to demand from the ESO to pump Foyers)


Note: The Maximum Import Limit denotes the maximum amount of power that a generated is able to import
from the transmission system. Where Foyers has capacity to pump in the BM, the MIL will be set below zero,
indicating its availability. Where Foyers is unable to pump, the MIL will be set at zero.



3.17   By comparing an estimate of the scale of these different costs and benefits in each
       settlement period in which Foyers had a bid accepted between May 2020 and March
       2021, we estimated a total excess of £5.58m (after deducting an amount to reflect
       what we considered to be a reasonable contribution to indirect costs and a reasonable
       profit). This estimate was subject to uncertainty, due (among other things) to the
       uncertainty as to the volume of bids that Foyers would have had accepted absent the
       transmission constraint, and the prices at which those bids would have been accepted,
       as well as the simplifications and assumptions used when estimating the costs and
       benefits to SSE of being bid down.

3.18   In addition to this direct detriment, we considered that the excess pricing was also
       likely to have led to other market distortions. For example, this included the risk that
       as a result of SSE submitting expensive prices in the period of concern, other
        generators may have on occasion also submitted more expensive prices than they
        otherwise would have, pushing up balancing costs for consumers.

4     PENALTY

Whether a financial penalty should be imposed in this case

4.1     In deciding whether it is appropriate to impose a financial penalty on SSE, and the
        amount of any penalty, we have had regard to the Statement of Policy with respect to
        Financial Penalties and Consumer Redress published in 2014 (the “2014 Penalty
        Policy”).6

4.2     We are required to carry out our functions under Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989,
        including the taking of any decision as to the imposition of a penalty, in the manner
        that we consider best calculated to further our principal objective set out in section 3A
        of the Electricity Act 1989, having regard to our other duties. In formulating our
        decision as to whether it is appropriate to impose a financial penalty, we have
        considered all the circumstances of the case presently known including, but not limited
        to, SSE’s representations, the representations received in response to the notice of our
        intention to impose a penalty on SSE, and the specific matters set out in the 2014
        Penalty Policy.

4.3     In this case we have decided that a financial penalty is appropriate. This is because:

        •   As set out above, the breach caused significant damage to the interests of
            consumers, including (but not limited to) by increasing balancing charges and so
            ultimately increasing costs for consumers. Consumer redress will help obtain a fair
            outcome for consumers;

        •   The breach did or could have damaged consumer and market participants’
            confidence in the market, given the crucial role that the TCLC plays in protecting
            against the inherent market power that is enjoyed by generators situated behind a
            constraint;




6

https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/sites/default/files/docs/2014/03/penalties_and_redress_policy_sta
tement_31_march_2014.pdf
       •   We consider that a penalty is necessary to deliver credible deterrence and visible
           and meaningful consequences for breaching the TCLC. This includes the need to
           ensure that the amount paid by SSE significantly exceeds the gain it derived;

       •   The chosen pricing strategy which gave rise to the breach was wholly within the
           control of SSE;

       •   It should have been clear to SSE that its revised approach carried a significant risk
           of breaching the TCLC;

       •   Even after becoming aware of Ofgem’s investigation, we understand that SSE
           continued to take broadly the same approach to setting its bid prices for Foyers in
           transmission constraint periods; and

       •   SSE has breached the TCLC previously.

4.4    These factors are discussed in further detail below where we describe the level of the
       penalty.

Level of penalty

4.5    Having considered the circumstances of the case we have required SSE to pay:

           •   An amount of £5.58m to reflect quantified consumer detriment relating to the
               breach

           •   A penal amount of £6m, discountable to £4.2m due to settlement being agreed
               within the 28 day early discount window.

4.6    In what follows we work through each of the steps set out in the 2014 Penalty Policy,
       and discuss how they apply to this case.

Step 1: Calculate detriment and gain

4.7    It is inherently difficult to estimate the direct detriment and gain from the breach.
       Among other reasons, this is because we do not know how SSE would have priced its
       bids absent any transmission constraint; nor the volume of bids that the ESO would
       have accepted for Foyers absent any transmission constraint. There are also various
       unknowns attached to our estimates of the costs and benefits of reductions in
       generation for Foyers.
4.8    Notwithstanding this, we set out at 3.17 above our estimate of the “direct” impact of
       the breach of £5.58m. This is an estimate of the cost to the ESO – and ultimately
       consumers – directly arising from SSE having a higher volume of bids accepted at more
       expensive prices than would have been expected absent any transmission constraint. It
       is distinct from any indirect effect of the breach via, for example, a potential impact on
       other generators’ bid prices. It is equivalent to the gain earned by SSE in relation to its
       excessive bids.

Step 2: Assess seriousness

4.9    As per sections 5.10 to 5.14 of the 2014 Penalty Policy, the seriousness of a breach
       depends on the nature and impact of the breach and whether or not the contravention
       was deliberate or reckless.

4.10   As set out in the previous section, it is our view that the breach is likely to have
       resulted in significant consumer detriment, by increasing balancing charges in the
       period in question. It is also likely to have had further impacts on the market – and
       ultimately consumers – that have not been quantified. This includes both distorting
       pricing in the BM more widely; and distorting investment incentives – particularly for
       network reinforcement in Scotland.

4.11   The breach also has the potential to damage consumer and market participants’
       confidence in the market. This is because the TCLC plays a crucial role in protecting
       against the inherent market power that is enjoyed by generators situated behind a
       constraint.

4.12   We have not seen any evidence which suggests that the breach was deliberate, ie that
       SSE changed its pricing strategy for Foyers knowing that the revised strategy would
       breach the TCLC. SSE itself has told us that the decisions it took around pricing for
       Foyers were made in good faith, and that it did not set out to deliberately breach the
       TCLC.

4.13   At the same time, the evidence we have collected makes clear that:

       •   in May 2020 SSE’s senior management amended its pricing policy to bring Foyers in
           line with what SSE believed was the market practice of Drax in relation to Cruachan
             pumped storage power station, rather than reflecting any particular change in
             market conditions or the costs or benefits to it of having bids accepted in the BM;

       •     this had the result of making Foyers’ bid prices significantly more expensive than
             the prices it had submitted previously;

       •     the primary driver for doing so was to generate more profit;

       •     in making the change, SSE was aware of the transmission constraint regularly
             affecting Foyers, and so its obligation to set its prices in a way that ensured it did
             not obtain an excessive benefit; and

       •     despite this, the effect of the revised pricing policy was to link bid prices for Foyers
             directly to those of Cruachan and SSE’s own wind generation units. In both cases,
             the generators in question were frequently bid down due to transmission
             constraints.

4.14   Given this we consider that it should have been clear to SSE (including senior
       management) that its revised approach carried a significant risk of breaching the TCLC.

4.15   The approach to pricing contrasted to that which had been used by SSE for Foyers at
       the start of 2017 – and that which was used for wind generation assets in SSE group’s
       portfolio – according to which bid prices should take into account the costs and benefits
       of providing the reduction in generation. While precisely estimating the opportunity
       costs of having a bid accepted for a pumped storage unit is complex, we considered
       that it would have been possible for SSE to form an approximate view of these costs,
       and so to set bid prices which were broadly reflective of the estimated costs and
       benefits of being bid down.

4.16   Taking into account the nature of the breach, its impact and the context surrounding
       the introduction of SSE’s revised pricing policy, we consider the breach to have been
       serious.

Step 3: consider aggravating or mitigating factors

4.17   We consider that in this case, a number of aggravating factors may apply:

       (a)        SSE has breached the TCLC previously: in 2015 SSE made a payment to
                  Energy Action Scotland of £100,000 after its bid prices for its Scottish hydro
               cascade units resulted in it receiving excessive payments in the BM, in breach
               of the TCLC;7

       (b)     SSE’s senior management was directly involved in the revision to the pricing
               policy which led to the breach, and – as set out above – the risks of breaching
               the TCLC given the nature of the policy should have been clear;

       (c)     Even after becoming aware of Ofgem’s investigation, SSE continued to take the
               same broad approach to setting its bid prices for Foyers in transmission
               constraint periods – ie setting these with reference to those of selected other
               generators frequently bid down due to a transmission constraint, and
               particularly Cruachan.

4.18   On the basis of the above, we consider that there are likely to be a number of
       aggravating factors in this case. Taken together, we have therefore decided to
       recommend a higher level of penalty than might otherwise have been considered
       suitable.

Step 4: consider whether the penal element ensures deterrence

4.19   As per sections 5.21 to 5.22 of the 2014 Penalty Policy, we next consider what level of
       penalty would be required to ensure that the penalty has sufficient deterrent effect.

4.20   In light of the need to ensure a credible deterrent, the indirect detriment described
       above (which has not been quantified), the seriousness of the breach and the
       aggravating factors described above, we consider that a further payment of £6m is
       reasonable in all of the circumstances, after having regard to the level of consumer
       redress that is to be paid.

4.21   We note that this amounts to only a small share of SSE’s total revenue (and operating
       profit) for the period in question. Nevertheless, we consider that a penalty of £6m is
       sufficiently material to provide a credible deterrent signal to the market.




7
 https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/publications/sse-pay-ps100000-energy-action-scotland-over-
constraint-payments
Step 5: Apply any settlement discount to the penal element

4.22    SSE has engaged constructively and has agreed to settle the investigation within the
        28 day settlement window, and therefore has benefitted from a 30% discount. This
        reduced the penal element from £6m to £4.2m.

Step 6: Establish the total financial liability

4.23    Having considered all of the above matters, we have required SSE to pay a total
        amount of £9.78 million, comprising £5.58m to reflect the consumer detriment we
        have quantified, and further penal element of £4.2m.

4.24    We have imposed a financial penalty of £1 on the condition that SSE pays the balance
        of the £9.78 million to Ofgem’s consumer redress fund. This approach is preferred
        because we consider that a payment into the consumer redress fund is of greater
        benefit to energy consumers than if a significant financial penalty were to be imposed.
        We consider the penalty to be reasonable in all of the circumstance of the case.

5     REPRESENTATIONS RECEIVED IN RESPONSE TO THE NOTICE OF 6 JUNE 2023

5.1     On 6 June 2023, the Authority published notice of its intention to impose a financial
        penalty on SSE pursuant to s27A(3) of the Electricity Act 1989, and invited any
        representations on that proposal. We received one response.

5.2     That response (published on our website) did not comment on the specifics of the SSE
        investigation or the penalty proposed. However, it did raise various concerns with the
        approach Ofgem had taken to assessing the excessiveness of SSE’s bids, including:

        •   That given the design of the BM and the lack of foreseeability of application of the
            TCLC, it seemed both entirely reasonable and rational for a generator to price its
            bids with reference to competitor bids which it expects will be accepted by the ESO,
            rather than the costs and benefits of its own asset being bid down as per Ofgem’s
            assessment;

        •   That the price of rival generators is explicitly included in the list of benchmarks
            included in the TCLC guidance – in contrast to the inference from Ofgem’s notice of
            6 June 2023 which implied that a generator can only ensure compliance if it bids
            purely by reference to its own costs and benefits of being bid down;
      •   That requiring generators to price their bids with reference to the costs and benefits
          of being bid down would make the TCLC a blanket restriction on bid pricing in the
          BM rather than a control on market power in specific circumstances, interfering with
          the efficient operation of the market;

      •   That if licensees were required to place controls on the overall level of benefit
          obtained during transmission constraint periods rather than bid prices (which would
          not be in line with the TCLC or the TCLC guidance), then the only way it would be
          possible to achieve compliance would be to set bid prices without any profit margin
          – which would place them at a disadvantage to generators the other side of the
          constraint; and

      •   That Ofgem should reconsider what it is asking of licensees, and whether a clearer
          definition of ‘excessive benefit’ is required; as well as further transparency around
          the occurrence of constraints.

5.3   We have considered this response carefully, and remain of the view that our approach
      to assessing the excessiveness of SSE’s bid prices is correct, and that a breach of the
      TCLC has occurred. Far from undermining competition in the BM or interfering with the
      efficient operation of the market, the TCLC both supports competition and ensures that
      the BM works in the best interests of consumers. Were generators subject to a
      transmission constraint free to take an approach to bid pricing along the lines set out in
      the response, it would result in those generators being able to take advantage of their
      market power - directly undermining the purpose of the TCLC, pushing up costs to
      consumers, and giving those generators a significant advantage relative to their rivals.
      We address the points raised in the response more fully below.

5.4   We agree with the respondent that in the BM generators have an incentive to submit
      prices close to the expected ‘marginal’ level – ie at a level reflecting the most
      expensive bid price that the ESO is expected to accept, given its likely requirements
      and the expected price of the next best alternative. However, the fact that generators
      have an incentive to price at this profit-maximising level does not mean that a licensee
      submitting bids at this level cannot be in breach of the TCLC. In fact, depending on the
      circumstances, the opposite may be true – ie in certain situations, pricing at this level
      may directly result in a breach of the TCLC.
5.5   It is important to note here that there will generally not be a single ‘marginal’ bid price
      in any given settlement period. Instead, in any given period the ESO will typically need
      to accept bids from certain groups of generators in order to balance the system, with
      the result that it will have different sets of alternatives available to it at different prices
      depending on the specific balancing requirement being addressed.

5.6   In the case of Foyers, the bids which SSE submitted were priced relative to selected
      alternatives which might have been available to the ESO specifically to manage thermal
      constraints in Scotland and/or Northern England (ie Cruachan and wind units).
      Therefore, those bid prices could be argued to reflect the ‘marginal’ price of managing
      the constraint(s), and the price at which SSE was incentivised to submit bids in order
      to maximise profit given the design of the BM. However the ESO’s willingness to accept
      bids at this level was a direct consequence of the existence of the transmission
      constraint, and particularly the lack of economic alternatives available to it to resolve
      that constraint. The TCLC is specifically intended to protect against generators taking
      advantage of the market power arising in such situations. By submitting bid prices at
      this level, SSE’s pricing policy by its nature carried a significant risk of giving rise to an
      excessive benefit, in breach of the TCLC.

5.7   An alternative ‘marginal’ price that generators might in principle seek to set their prices
      with reference to would be an estimate of the most expensive bid that the ESO would
      be likely to accept in a given period from generators that are not subject to a
      transmission constraint (eg based on observations of patterns in historic accepted bid
      prices which were not system flagged). While such an approach would have been
      expected to result in less expensive prices than those submitted by SSE for Foyers in
      the period in question, it is important to note that a benchmark of this type could also
      result in bid prices which are not compliant with the TCLC, where used by a generator
      that is subject to a transmission constraint. This is because such a bid price is not
      necessarily likely to be reflective of the benefit that the generator would have obtained
      absent the transmission constraint.

5.8   One reason for this is that – given the significant uncertainty around the ESO’s
      requirements and the prices of their rivals in any given period – generators that are not
      subject to a transmission constraint typically face a trade-off. On the one hand, they
      can choose to submit more expensive prices, increasing their profit if the bid is
       accepted, but reducing the probability of the bid being accepted if the ESO’s
       requirements are less than anticipated or rivals submit cheaper prices than expected.
       On the other hand, they can submit less expensive bid prices, increasing their chance
       of having a bid accepted, but sacrificing some profit in the process.

5.9    The effect of this trade-off is that in practice we see significant variation in the bid
       prices submitted by different generators in any given settlement period, with most
       submitting bids that are less expensive than what ultimately turns out to be the
       marginal level. A generator which sought to maximise profit by setting its bid prices at
       the very top of the expected acceptance range in every settlement period would
       frequently not have a bid accepted at all.

5.10   In contrast, a generator behind a transmission constraint does not face the same
       trade-off. This is because the existence of the transmission constraint has the effect
       that even where the licensee submits relatively expensive bid prices, the ESO will have
       few economic alternatives available to it other than accepting the bid of that generator.

5.11   The result is that, were a constrained generator to use an estimate of the most
       expensive bid price that will be accepted among generators not subject to a
       transmission constraint as a benchmark when setting its own prices, then this would
       likely result in that generator earning on average a level of profit significantly greater
       than generators not subject to a constraint. Allowing constrained generators to submit
       bid prices at this level could therefore give generators subject to a transmission
       constraint a very significant advantage compared to unconstrained generators, allowing
       them to obtain a profit far in excess of that which would be achievable absent the
       constraint, and undermining the purpose of the TCLC.

5.12   This is not to say that the prices of rival generators can never provide a useful
       benchmark when considering the excessiveness or otherwise of a licensee’s bid prices.
       This is reflected in the TCLC guidance, which refers to such benchmarks as indicators
       which may be considered when determining whether an excessive benefit has been
       obtained. In fact, as described in section 3 of this notice, we have carried out and
       placed weight on comparisons with benchmarks of this type in the context of this
       investigation. Rather than the marginal price, we would generally expect average
       prices or profit margins of groups of comparable generators to be a more useful guide
       to what would be a ‘reasonable’ level of profit for a generator operating in transmission
       constraint periods to price into its bids.

5.13   Related, where a generator fails to have any regard to its costs and benefits of being
       bid down, and instead relies wholly on comparator generator benchmarks to set its bid
       prices in transmission constraint periods, that does not mean that its bid prices will
       necessarily be excessive. Rather, this will depend on the specific comparator chosen,
       and whether the prices of that comparator provide a useful guide to the benefit that
       the generator would obtain absent the transmission constraint. However, such a pricing
       policy does create an intrinsic risk of breaching the TCLC, as the generator has
       essentially delegated responsibility for its bid prices, without any controls in place on
       the level of benefit received and in turn, the risk of breaching the TCLC.

5.14   With respect to a generator’s ability to know when it submits a bid whether that will bid
       will, if accepted, be used to manage a transmission constraint, we agree that in general
       generators have limited visibility of the ESO’s rationale for accepting specific bids and
       offers, and the existence of transmission constraints more generally. This has been the
       case since the TCLC was first introduced. It reflects the fact that, in deciding what
       information to publish regarding both transmission constraints and bid acceptances, the
       ESO must take into account both the practical challenges associated with publishing
       such information (given that actions are being taken in real time, and given the
       number of actions being taken); and the commercial implications of doing so.

5.15   Nevertheless, this does not mean that it is acceptable for generators to submit
       excessive prices in transmission constraint periods. Nor is this to say that generators
       will be unable to form any expectation as to whether or not they are operating in a
       transmission constraint period. Significant information regarding the occurrence of
       transmission constraints is available to generators. The clearest indicator is the
       licensee’s ability to observe whether or not previous bids have been system flagged,
       while further information on the presence and nature of constraints is also available to
       market participants via the ESO’s publications (particularly the ESO data portal) and its
       operational transparency forums. This information allows generators to form a view on
       the likelihood that they are subject to a transmission constraint, and so whether the
       TCLC will apply to their bid pricing.
5.16    Finally, we do not agree that requiring licensees to place controls on the overall level of
        benefit in £ million obtained during transmission constraint periods is inconsistent with
        the TCLC or the TCLC guidance, nor that this would require generators to set their bid
        prices to reflect costs and benefits of being bid down, but no more. The TCLC refers
        directly to ‘excessive benefits’, and the benefit to a generator of a bid acceptance is the
        profit it earns. While a generator does not have control over the amount of bid volume
        which the ESO considers is required to address a transmission constraint, it does have
        full control over the profit margin in £/MWh it prices into those bids, and in setting this
        element of bid prices, is able to take into account previous bid acceptances.

5.17    The requirement that generators do not obtain an excessive benefit in transmission
        constraint periods does not mean that no profit margin can be priced into bids. The
        TCLC requires only that the profit earned is not significantly greater than would have
        been obtained absent the transmission constraint. Exactly what level of profit margin in
        £/MWh would not amount to an benefit that is excessive will in part depend on the
        volume of bids accepted, because it is the combination of those margins and
        exogenous bid acceptance volumes which will determine the overall profit (and
        contribution to indirect costs) that is obtained by the business.

6     THE AUTHORITY’S DECISION

6.1     We have found that SSE has breached the TCLC as set out in section 3 of this Notice.
        Having considered all of the relevant facts and circumstances in our possession and
        having regard to the 2014 Penalty Policy, we therefore have decided to impose a
        penalty of £1 on SSE which we consider to be an amount which is reasonable in all the
        circumstances of the case for the reasons set out in section 4 of this Notice. We have
        considered the representations received in response to the notice of our proposal to
        impose a penalty on SSE, but do not consider that any changes are required to the
        penalty compared to the level described in that notice, for the reasons set out in
        section 5.

6.2     The penalty takes into account that SSE will pay £9,780,000.00 (less £1 penalty), into
        the consumer redress fund. The payment of the amounts will be made by 5 September
        2023 (ie 42 days of the date of service of this notice).
6.3   In reaching this decision, we have taken the relevant factors under the 2014 Penalty
      Policy into account, including:

      •   The serious nature of the breach

      •   The financial harm suffered by customers as a result of the contravention

      •   The aggravating factors described above.

6.4   We hereby give notice under section 27A(5) of the Electricity Act 1989 of our decision
      to impose a penalty of £1 on SSE in respect of the contraventions set out above.

6.5   SSE has agreed to settle the investigation on the basis of paying a financial penalty of
      £1 and the pay the sum of £9,780,000.00 (less £1 penalty) by way of consumer
      redress.

Gas and Electricity Markets Authority Date: 25 July 2023
