Provisional Order confirmed under section 25(4) of the Electricity Act
1989
To: Tomato Energy Ltd (“Tomato Energy”) (company number 09735768) having its
registered office at Devonshire Business Centre Aviary Court, Wade Road,
Basingstoke, England, RG24 8PE, holder of an electricity supply licence granted or
treated as granted under section 6(1)(d) of the Electricity Act 1989.


WHEREAS:

A. Tomato Energy is the holder of an electricity supply licence granted by the Gas and
    Electricity Markets Authority (“the Authority”) and is subject to the conditions
    thereunder, which are “relevant conditions” for the purposes of the Electricity Act
    1989.
B. Based on the information received by the Authority and its engagement with Tomato
    Energy regarding Tomato Energy’s compliance with its obligations under the
    Standard Conditions of the electricity supply licence (collectively referred to as
    “Standard Licence Conditions”) the Authority is satisfied that Tomato Energy is
    contravening or is likely to contravene Standard Licence Conditions (“SLCs”) 4A, 4B.1
    and 4B.8 (the “relevant Standard Licence Conditions”). Unless otherwise stated,
    capitalised terms in this Notice are defined in the SLCs.


C. Standard Licence Condition 4A (“SLC 4A”) provides the following:
       Condition 4A Operational capability
       4A.1 The licensee must ensure it has and maintains robust internal capability,
       systems and processes to enable the licensee to: […]
       (c) comply with relevant legislative and regulatory obligations.


D. Standard Licence Condition 4B (“SLC 4B”) relevantly provides the following:
       Condition 4B. Financial responsibility principle
       4B.1 The licensee must ensure that it maintains Capital 1 and Liquidity of sufficient
       amount and Quality that it is able to meet its reasonably anticipated financial
       liabilities as they fall due on an ongoing basis. […]
       Definitions […]




1
 Capitalised terms in this provisional order have the same meanings as those defined in the
Standard Licence Conditions.


OFG1164
       4B.28 […]
       “Liquidity” means the resources that suppliers can convert into ‘cash’ as soon as
       needed and with minimal loss in value to meet liabilities as they fall due,
       including under adverse circumstances. […]
       “Quality” mean characteristics that make a source of funding best suited to
       allow a firm to absorb losses unambiguously on an ongoing basis, including under
       adverse circumstances.


       “Monitoring and Reporting
       “4B.8 The licensee must notify the Authority in writing:
       (i)    as soon as reasonably practicable but no later than 7 days after it becomes
              aware that there is a Material risk that any of the Trigger Points set out in
              sub-paragraphs (a) to (d) will occur; and
       (ii)   as soon as reasonably practicable but no later than 7 days after it becomes
              aware that any of the following Trigger Points have occurred:
                   (a) any reduction in the licensee’s Access to Funds, where this may
                   impact the licensee’s ability to meet standard conditions 4B.1, 4B.2,
                   4B.3,4B.4, 4B.5 and 4B.6;
                   (b) any changes with respect to the licensee’s contractual
                   arrangements with counterparties, where this may impact the
                   licensee’s ability to meet standard conditions 4B.1, 4B.2, 4B.3, 4B.4,
                   4B.5 and 4B.6; or
                   (c) any change that could have a Material adverse effect in respect to
                   the cash position of the licensee; […]
       4B.9 Where the licensee notifies the Authority in accordance with standard
       condition 4B.8, it must, along with the notification, explain the impact that the
       relevant change will have, may have or has had on its ability to meet standard
       conditions 4B.1, 4B.2, 4B.3, 4B.4, 4B.5 and 4B.6.


E. Since late 2024, the Authority has been contacted by multiple industry parties in
  relation to the late or non-payment of financial liabilities by Tomato Energy. The
  Authority has engaged with Tomato Energy in respect of its obligations under the
  financial responsibility principle and its business practices in relation to meeting its
  financial liabilities and met with the licensee on 13 February 2025, 5 March 2025 and
  7 April 2025. The licensee has repeatedly sought to assure the Authority that while it


OFG1164
  acknowledged that it had experienced cashflow challenges which had led to the late
  payment of financial liabilities, effective action had been taken to prevent a
  recurrence.


F. The Authority made clear to the licensee that a failure to meet reasonably anticipated
  financial liabilities in full and on time gave rise to an obligation under SLC.4B.8-9 to
  notify the Authority in writing.


G. On 2 April 2025, the Authority was informed by multiple market participants that they
  were considering commencing legal proceedings against Tomato Energy for the
  recovery of unpaid liabilities totalling over £3m.


H. The licensee has not submitted any notifications to the Authority under SLC.4B.8-9.


I. Given the failure of the licensee to submit appropriate notifications to the Authority
  under SLC 4B.8-9, it appears that the licensee is not maintaining robust internal
  capability, systems and processes to enable the licensee to comply with its relevant
  regulatory obligations contrary to SLC 4A.


J. Based on the information received by the Authority and its engagement with Tomato
  Energy regarding its compliance with its obligations under SLC 4A, SLC 4B.1 and SLC
  4B.8 of the electricity supply licence, it appears to the Authority that Tomato Energy
  is contravening or is likely to contravene SLC 4A, SLC 4B.1 and SLC 4B.8.


K. The information considered by the Authority, includes:


   1) Notifications from industry bodies owed money by Tomato Energy indicating that
       Tomato Energy had not met its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities as they
       fell due.
   2) A failure to submit the required notifications to the Authority when Trigger Points
       set out in SLC. 4B.8(a)-(c) have occurred.


L. The operational capability and financial responsibility principle rules are an important
  safeguard to energy consumers because they help to minimise the costs at risk of
  Mutualisation in the event of a market exit. Tomato Energy’s actions i.e. a repeated
  failure to meet its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities on an ongoing basis and a




OFG1164
  repeated failure to meet its reporting obligations amount to serious breaches of the
  SLC 4A, SLC 4B.1 and SLC 4B.8.


M. The issuing of a Provisional Order is requisite for the purposes of section 25(2)
  Electricity Act 1989 to secure compliance with SLC 4A, SLC 4B.1 and SLC 4B.8 at the
  earliest opportunity, by ensuring that the licensee puts in place robust internal
  capability, systems and processes to comply with its legislative and regulatory
  obligations (including the obligation to report to the Authority under SLC 4B.8) and to
  obtain and maintain Liquidity of sufficient amount and Quality that it is able to meet
  its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities as they fall due on an ongoing basis,
  which is necessary, proportionate and in the public interest.Having had regard to the
  matters set out in section 25 of the Electricity Act 1989, the Authority considered it
  requisite to make a provisional order in exercise of the power in section 25(2) of the
  Electricity Act 1989.


N. On 10 April 2025 the Authority issued a provisional order under section 25(2) of the
  Electricity Act 1989 requiring Tomato Energy to comply with the relevant Standard
  Licence Conditions (the “Provisional Order”).


O. The Provisional Order required that Tomato Energy:
   1) By no later than 4pm on 1 May 2025 to provide the Authority with an
       independent report (commissioned by Tomato Energy at its own expense and
       prepared by an independent professional acceptable to the Authority with a
       framework and remit also acceptable to the Authority) regarding the quantity
       and Quality of Tomato Energy's Capital and Liquidity, including its ability to meet
       its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities as they fall due on an ongoing basis.
       The report must also outline recommendations of what remedial actions, if any,
       Tomato Energy should take to maintain compliance with its obligations under SLC
       4B.1.
   2) Obtain and maintain Liquidity of a sufficient amount and Quality so that it is able
       to meet its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities as they fall due on an
       ongoing basis by no later than 4pm on 8 May 2025.
   3) From the date of this Provisional Order, put in place and maintain robust internal
       capability, systems and processes to enable the licensee to comply with relevant




OFG1164
      legislative and regulatory obligations (including, but not limited to, its reporting
      obligations under SLC 4B.8-9).
   4) Until compliance with SLC 4A and SLC 4B.1 is achieved in accordance with the
      preceding paragraphs and the Authority has confirmed in writing to Tomato
      Energy that compliance has been achieved, Tomato Energy must:
          o   refrain from all sales, marketing and customer acquisition activity,
              including the acquisition of any new domestic and non-domestic customers
              (“Sales Ban”); and
          o   refrain from making any payment, providing any loan or transferring any
              asset to any third party unless that payment, loan or transfer is one that:
              i) it is required to make by virtue of a statutory requirement, court order
              or by virtue of a contractual requirement where making that payment is
              essential to enable Tomato Energy to run its business; ii) is essential to
              Tomato Energy’s operation as a supplier of electricity to consumers; or iii)
              is otherwise approved in writing by the Authority (“Non-essential
              Payments Ban”).
   5) From the date of this Provisional Order, notify the Authority in writing as soon as
      reasonably practicable but no later than 7 days after it becomes aware that there
      is a Material risk that any of the Trigger Points (as set out in SLC 4B.8 (a) to (d))
      will occur and/or as soon as reasonably practicable but no later than 7 days after
      it becomes aware that any of the Trigger Points have occurred.

Q. Based on information Tomato Energy has provided to the Authority to date, the
   Authority considers that Tomato Energy has failed to:
   1) Obtain and maintain Liquidity of a sufficient amount and Quality so that it is able
      to meet its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities as they fall due on an
      ongoing basis.
   2) Put in place and maintain robust internal capability, systems and processes to
      enable the licensee to comply with relevant legislative and regulatory obligations
      (including, but not limited to, its reporting obligations under SLC 4B.8-9).
   3) Notify the Authority in writing as soon as reasonably practicable but no later than
      7 days after it becomes aware that there is a Material risk that any of the Trigger
      Points (as set out in SLC 4B.8 (a) to (d)) will occur and/or as soon as reasonably
      practicable but no later than 7 days after it becomes aware that any of the
      Trigger Points have occurred.


OFG1164
R. The Authority made a proposal to confirm the Provisional Order with modifications on
   13 June 2025 under Section 26(1) and 26(2) of the Electricity Act 1989 (the
   “Proposal to Confirm”)


S. Having had regard to the matters set out in section 25 of the Electricity Act 1989, the
   Authority is satisfied that Tomato Energy is contravening or is likely to contravene
   Standard Licence Conditions 4A, 4B.1 and 4B.8 which are relevant conditions for the
   purposes of section 25 of the Electricity Act 1989. The Authority therefore considers
   it is requisite to confirm the Provisional Order with modifications for the purposes of
   securing Tomato Energy’s compliance with Standard Licence Conditions 4A, 4B.1 and
   4B.8.


NOW THEREFORE:

T. The Authority, pursuant to section 25(4) of the Electricity Act 1989, and for the
   purpose of securing compliance with the relevant Standard Licence Conditions
   confirms the Provisional Order with modifications (effective on the date set out
   below) requiring Tomato Energy to:
   1) Obtain and maintain Liquidity of a sufficient amount and Quality so that it is able
       to meet its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities as they fall due on an
       ongoing basis by no later than 4pm on 31 August 2025.
   2) Put in place and maintain robust internal capability, systems and processes to
       enable the licensee to comply with relevant legislative and regulatory obligations
       (including, but not limited to, its reporting obligations under SLC 4B.8-9).
   3) Until compliance with SLC 4A and SLC 4B.1 is achieved in accordance with the
       preceding paragraphs and the Authority has confirmed in writing to Tomato
       Energy that compliance has been achieved, Tomato Energy must:
       o   refrain from all sales, marketing and customer acquisition activity, including
           the acquisition of any new domestic and non-domestic customers (“Sales
           Ban”); and
       o   refrain from making any payment, providing any loan or transferring any
           asset to any third party unless that payment, loan or transfer is one that: i) it
           is required to make by virtue of a statutory requirement, court order or by
           virtue of a contractual requirement where making that payment is essential to
           enable Tomato Energy to run its business; ii) is essential to Tomato Energy’s



OFG1164
          operation as a supplier of electricity to consumers; or iii) is otherwise
          approved in writing by the Authority (“Non-essential Payments Ban”).
   4) Notify the Authority in writing as soon as reasonably practicable but no later than
       7 days after it becomes aware that there is a Material risk that any of the Trigger
       Points (as set out in SLC 4B.8 (a) to (d)) will occur and/or as soon as reasonably
       practicable but no later than 7 days after it becomes aware that any of the
       Trigger Points have occurred.


U. Pursuant to section 27(7) of the Electricity Act 1989, the Authority may seek to
   enforce the confirmed Provisional Order by application to the High Court (in England
   and Wales) or the Court of Session (in Scotland) for injunctive or other relief without
   further notice to Tomato Energy.


Dated: 9 July 2025


Signed:


Cathryn Scott (Director)

Duly authorised on behalf of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority




OFG1164
