Penalty notice
Notice of Proposal to Impose a Financial Penalty Pursuant to
Section 27A(3) of the Electricity Act 1989
Date: 10 10 2025

Proposal of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority (“the Authority”) to impose a
financial penalty, following a Provisional Order (“PO”) issued to Tomato Energy Ltd
(“Tomato Energy”), on 10 April 20251, with confirmation of this PO (with modifications)
issued to Tomato Energy on 10 July 20252 in relation to its compliance with its
obligations under Standard Licence Conditions (“SLC”) 4A.1, 4B.1 and 4B.8 of its
Electricity supply licence.

1. Summary

1.1.           The Authority is satisfied that Tomato Energy has, since 10 April 2025,
               contravened, and as of 10 October 2025 is contravening, its obligation under
               SLC 4B.1 to ensure that it maintains Capital3 and Liquidity of sufficient amount
               and Quality that it is able to meet its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities
               as they fall due on an ongoing basis.

1.2.           The Authority hereby gives notice under section 27A (3) of the Electricity Act
               1989 (“EA 89”) of its intention to impose a penalty of £1,500,000 on Tomato
               Energy.

1.3.           The Authority, having taken into account all relevant considerations under its
               Statement of Policy4 considers that a financial penalty is necessary and
               proportionate on the basis that Tomato Energy’s continuing contravention of
               SLC 4B.1:
          i.      has resulted in a financial benefit to Tomato Energy (and a corresponding
                  financial detriment to its creditors)




1
    Provisional Order made under section 25(2) of the Electricity Act 1989 (10 April 2025), Ofgem website
2
    Confirmed Provisional Order: Tomato Energy Ltd (10 July 2025), Ofgem website
3
  Unless otherwise stated, capitalised terms in this notice have the same meanings as those defined in the
Electricity Standard Licence Conditions .
4
  Statement of policy with respect to financial penalties and consumer redress under the Gas Act 1986 and the
Electricity Act 1989 (23 March 2022), Ofgem website
Penalty notice
          ii.   represents a serious and ongoing contravention of the rules implemented by
                the Authority to ensure the financial resilience of supply licensees following
                the gas crisis of 2022

1.4.        The Authority also considers that proposing to impose a financial penalty is
            appropriate to deter future misconduct by Tomato Energy and by other industry
            participants.

1.5.        In establishing the total financial liability, the Authority may take into account
            the effect of a proposed penalty on the financial viability of a regulated person5
            and may make adjustments accordingly in light of its principal objective to
            protect the interests of existing and future consumers.6 We have taken into
            account that Tomato Energy has been in financial distress and therefore at
            heightened risk of exiting the supply market due to insolvency for a prolonged
            period. The Authority will carefully consider any representations or objections to
            the proposal which are duly made and not withdrawn, including whether the
            imposition of a financial penalty, and the amount, is reasonable in all
            circumstances of the case.

1.6.        Any written representations or objections to this notice must be received by
            email to Head of Enforcement Sam Wood, sam.wood@ofgem.gov.uk, or Senior
            Enforcement Investigator James Walker, j.walker@ofgem.gov.uk, or by post to
            Sam Wood, Head Of Enforcement, Ofgem, Enforcement, 4th Floor, 10 South
            Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 4PU by 4pm on 3 November 2025.

1.7.        The Authority may publish any representations or objections that are not
            marked as confidential. Should you wish your response or part of your response
            to remain confidential, please indicate this clearly. The Authority will consider
            whether to comply with any such requests on a case-by-case basis.

2. Relevant licence condition

2.1.        On 5 April 2023, following consultation, the Authority published a decision on
            strengthening financial resilience with the objective of ensuring both that supply




5
    Statement of Policy with respect to Financial Penalties and Consumer Redress (23 March 2022)
6
    Ibid, paragraph 5.21
Penalty notice
            licensees are less likely to fail and that if they do fail, costs to consumers are
            minimised and thus energy bills are kept as low as possible. 7

2.2.        The new rules, which came into effect for all supply licensees on 31 May 2023,
            included:

            “4B.1. The licensee must ensure that it maintains Capital and Liquidity of
            sufficient amount and Quality that it is able to meet its reasonably anticipated
            financial liabilities as they fall due on an ongoing basis.”

3. The acts or omissions which, in the opinion of the Authority,
      constitute the contravention in question and the other facts which, in
      the opinion of the Authority, justify the imposition of a penalty and
      the amount of the penalty proposed

Chronology of key events

3.1.        On 10 April 2024, the Authority issued a PO8 to Tomato Energy on the basis that
            it was requisite for the purposes of section 25(2) Electricity Act 1989 to secure
            compliance with a number of licence conditions, including SLC 4B.1. As set out
            in the Notice of Reasons9 published alongside the PO, the Authority had engaged
            with Tomato Energy throughout the period of January 2025 to early April 2025
            in relation to concerns that it was not meeting its reasonably anticipated
            financial liabilities as they fell due on an ongoing basis. While Tomato Energy
            had sought to provide assurances to the Authority that it was taking action to
            obtain and maintain Liquidity of sufficient amount and Quality to address its
            cashflow issues, it had failed to obtain and maintain the appropriate level of
            Liquidity to achieve compliance.

3.2.        The PO required Tomato Energy to take a range of actions, including to obtain
            and maintain Liquidity of a sufficient amount and Quality so that it is able to
            meet its reasonably anticipated financial liabilities as they fall due on an ongoing
            basis by no later than 4pm on 8 May 2025.




7
    Decision on Strengthening Financial Resilience (5 April 2023), Ofgem website
8
    Provisional Order made under section 25(2) of the Electricity Act 1989
9
 Notice of reasons under section 49A of the Electricity Act 1989 for the decision to make a Provisional Order
under section 25(2) of the Electricity Act 1989
Penalty notice
3.3.           As Tomato Energy did not meet the requirements set out in the PO, on 13 June
               2025 the Authority issued notice of proposal to confirm the PO pursuant to
               section 26(1) and (2) of the Electricity Act 1989.10 Tomato Energy was given
               the opportunity to make representations about the proposal but did not do so.
3.4.           On 10 July 2025, the Authority issued a confirmed PO (with modifications)11 to
               Tomato Energy, requiring it to obtain and maintain Liquidity of a sufficient
               amount and Quality so that it was able to meet its reasonably anticipated
               financial liabilities as they fall due on an ongoing basis by no later than 4pm on
               31 August 2025. The notice of reasons published alongside the confirmed
               PO12 noted that Tomato Energy’s ability to meet its reasonably anticipated
               financial liabilities over the next 3-6 months appeared challenging without
               external investment.

3.5.           On 10 September 2025, the Authority issued Tomato Energy with a notice of
               failure to comply with a confirmed PO. 13

3.6.           Information provided by Tomato Energy to the Authority indicates that:
          i.      as of 2 October 2025, its outstanding financial liabilities to over 35 creditors,
                  including industry bodies, total over £12m
          ii.     while it has continued to engage with potential investors and other third
                  parties, it has not finalised agreements which would enable it to address its
                  serious cashflow challenges and meet its financial liabilities on an ongoing
                  basis.

Principles relating to financial penalties

3.7.           In deciding whether to impose a penalty, and in determining the amount of any
               penalty, in respect of a contravention or failure, the Authority is required to
               have regard to its Statement of Policy with Respect to Financial Penalties and
               Consumer Redress14.




10
   Notice of proposal of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to confirm a Provisional Order pursuant to
section 26 (1) and (2) of the Electricity Act 1989
11
   Confirmed Provisional Order: Tomato Energy Ltd
12
     Notice of Reasons to Confirm a Provisional Order: Tomato Energy Ltd (10 July 2025), Ofgem website
13
   Notice of failure to comply with a confirmed Provisional Order within the meaning of section 25 of the
Electricity Act 1989 (10 September 2025), Ofgem
14
   Statement of Policy with Respect to Financial Penalties and Consumer Redress (23 March 2022), drafted in
accordance with Section 27B(2) of the Electricity Act 1989 and section 30B of the Gas Act 1986, Ofgem
website
Penalty notice
3.8.          The Authority is required to carry out its functions under Part 1 of the EA 89
              including the taking of any decision as to the imposition of a penalty, in the
              manner which it considers is best calculated to further its principal objective set
              out in section 3A EA 89 having regard to its other duties.

3.9.          The Authority is clear that regulated persons should not benefit financially from
              any contravention or failure. Indeed, the Authority considers that non-
              compliance should normally cost significantly more than compliance and that
              financial penalties should act as a significant deterrent to future non-
              compliance, both for the regulated person and for other market participants.

General Criteria in relation to imposing a financial penalty and/or consumer
redress order

3.10.         In accordance with the Penalty Statement, the Authority has considered various
              factors in deciding whether to impose a penalty including those listed at
              paragraph 4.1 of the Penalty Statement:

   A. The seriousness of the contravention or failure

3.11.         The Authority considers Tomato Energy’s contravention of SLC.4B.1 to be
              serious, taking into account that:
         i.      the relevant obligation came into effect on 31 May 2023.
        ii.      the contravention has been sustained and material.

   B. The impact of licensees’ behaviours, including the extent to which the
         failure damaged the interests of consumers or other market participants

3.12.         The Authority does not consider that the contravention of SLC.4B.1 has, to date,
              had any direct adverse impact on Tomato Energy’s Customers. However, it has
              had, and continues to have, a serious and adverse impact on:
         i.      Tomato Energy’s creditors, including multiple industry bodies, which have
                 incurred additional and unnecessary operational and financial costs as a
                 result of the late payments.
        ii.      other supply licensees which are maintaining Liquidity of sufficient amount
                 and Quality to meet their reasonably anticipated financial liabilities as they
                 fall due on an ongoing basis
        iii.     the interests of all consumers in terms of the risk of costs that could be
                 Mutualised were it to exit the supply market.
Penalty notice
   C. Deterrence, including whether a financial penalty is necessary to deter
         future contraventions or failures by all market participants and
         encourage compliance

3.13.         The Authority considers that a financial penalty is necessary in the
              circumstances to emphasise that compliance with the rules implemented to
              prevent a recurrence of the impacts to consumers of supply licensees failing to
              be financial resilient is mandatory. All supply licensees should be in no doubt
              that a failure to comply with the rules will lead to consequences, including
              financial penalties.

4. Determining the amount of the financial penalty

4.1.          The Penalty Policy sets out the process for determining the regulated person’s
              overall financial liability as a result of the contravention or failure, taking into
              account the objectives of:
         i.      ensuring that the regulated person does not benefit financially from the
                 contravention or failure;
        ii.      reflecting the seriousness of the contravention or failure; and
        iii.     deterring future misconduct by the regulated person under investigation and
                 other industry participants.

4.2.          The total amount payable by a regulated person will normally be calculated in
              accordance with a six-step process, as set out below.

Step 1 – Calculate the detriment and gain

4.3.          In estimating the financial gain to Tomato Energy of the contravention for the
              purposes of this step of calculating a reasonable financial penalty we have taken
              into account that:
         i.      On the basis of information provided by Tomato Energy, its unpaid liabilities
                 to its various creditors over a period of 6 months (that is, since the PO was
                 issued on 10 April 2025) have consistently totalled (on a rolling basis) at
                 least £10m
Penalty notice
        ii.   For the purposes of the price cap, the pre-tax nominal Cost of Capital (CoC)
              of a non-vertically integrated supply licensee since April 2025 has been
              12.82%15
       iii.   The relative financial benefit to Tomato Energy resulting from contravention
              is therefore at least £600,000.

Step 2 – Assess the seriousness of the breach

4.4.      The Authority considers the contravention to be at the higher scale of
          seriousness, taking into account the factors set out in the Policy Statement:
              •    nature of the contravention or failure, including the frequency
                   and/or duration of the contravention or failure: the contravention is
                   sustained (at least 6 months) and ongoing
              •    behaviour of the regulated person, including the regulated
                   person’s awareness of the contravention and the extent to which
                   the regulated person and its senior management had taken steps
                   to secure compliance: we recognise that the senior management of
                   Tomato Energy have, since late 2024 at the latest, been taking steps to
                   engage with potential investors and other third parties to address its
                   cashflow challenges and bring the licensee into compliance with its
                   regulatory obligations (including SLC.4B.1.) However, these efforts have
                   not yet resulted in any tangible or sustained reduction in the level of
                   Tomato Energy’s unpaid debts
              •    impact of the contravention or failure, including any detrimental
                   effect on the ability of Ofgem or the Authority to fulfil its
                   statutory duties and whether there was any consumer or market
                   participant detriment or gain (financial or otherwise) made by
                   the regulated person: the Authority does not consider that the
                   contravention has had any detrimental effect on its ability to fulfil its
                   statutory duties. However, as noted above, we consider that there has
                   been relative financial benefit to the regulated person.




15
  See Chapter 4 Cost of Capital of Price Cap - Decision on amending the methodology for setting the Earnings
Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) allowance (25 August 2023). The Cost of Capital for the last price cap periods
April – June 2025 and July – September 2025 was 12.82%)
Penalty notice
4.5.           The Authority considers that the seriousness of the breach warrants an uplift of
               the financial penalty to £1,000,000.

Step 3 – Consider aggravating or mitigating factors

4.6.           The Authority will consider aggravating and mitigating factors and adjust the
               penal element of a proposed financial penalty accordingly. The Penalty Policy
               provides a non-exhaustive list of aggravating factors and mitigating factors
               related to the behaviour of the licensee that the Authority will consider,
               including:



          i.      The licensee’s compliance history: on 16 November 2023, the Authority
                  opened an investigation into whether Tomato Energy was in compliance with
                  Standard Licence Conditions ("SLC") SLC 4A and 5 in relation to the
                  provision of data under the Energy Price Guarantee.16 The investigation
                  established that Tomato Energy had significant gaps in its customer service
                  procedures which exposed customers to an increased risk of harm. Tomato
                  Energy accepted the findings of the investigation and submitted payments
                  totalling £1,500,000 to Ofgem’s Energy Industry Voluntary Redress Fund
                  and made Consumer Redress payments to the impacted consumers. 17
         ii.      The licensee’s actions, or lack thereof, taken after becoming aware
                  of the contravention or failure prior to Ofgem’s investigation: the
                  Authority first became aware that Tomato Energy was not meeting its
                  financial liabilities as a result of contact from its creditors in late 2024 and
                  early 2025, rather than as a result of self-reporting by the licensee. The
                  licensee indicated to the Authority, prior to the opening of its formal
                  investigation on 10 April 2025, that it was seeking to bring itself into
                  compliance with its licence obligations (including but not limited to SLC.4B.1)
                  by securing additional investment, but it was not able to do so.
         iii.     Actions, or lack thereof, taken after becoming aware of the
                  contravention or failure during Ofgem’s investigation: As noted above,
                  the licensee has indicated that it has been taking steps to engage with




16
     Ofgem opens investigation into Tomato Energy | Ofgem (1 December 2023), Ofgem website
17
   Investigation into Tomato Energy Limited (formerly Logicor Energy Limited) and its compliance with its
obligations under SLCs 4A and 5 of the Electricity Licence | Ofgem (1 December 2023), Ofgem website
Penalty notice
                  potential investors and other third parties to address its cashflow challenges
                  and bring the licensee into compliance with its regulatory obligations
                  (including SLC.4B.1.)

4.7.           The Authority considers that, taking into account the above aggravating factors
               warrant an uplift to the proposed financial penalty to £1,200,000.

Step 4 – Consider an adjustment for deterrence

4.8.           The Authority will consider whether a further adjustment to the penal element of
               a proposed financial penalty needs to be made to ensure that it will have a
               sufficient deterrent effect. The Authority may make such an adjustment if it
               considers that the penal element would otherwise be insufficient to deter the
               regulated person, or others, from committing further or similar contraventions
               or failures.

4.9.           We consider the relevant circumstances of the case warrant a strong deterrent
               signal to be sent both to Tomato Energy, and to all other supply licensees, on
               the basis that:
          i.      a resilient and reasonably profitable energy market, with a level playing field
                  for responsible supply licensees, sustainable competition and investment
                  relies upon there being clear and robust consequences for failing to meet
                  minimum standards
          ii.     as this case demonstrates, a contravention of SLC.4B.1, can have both a
                  material impact on other market participants

4.10.          The Authority considers that it is necessary and reasonable in the circumstances
               to ensure that the proposed financial penalty has a sufficient deterrent effect to
               apply an uplift to the penal element of the proposed financial penalty to
               £1,500,000.

Step 5 – Apply a discount in settled cases

4.11.          The Authority may offer a regulated person the opportunity to settle a case,
               where this would be in the interests of consumers. In cases, such as this one,
               where a provisional order has been made, and confirmed, and statutory time
               restrictions therefore apply, the voluntary settlement process will not apply. 18




18
     See paragraph 6.10 of the Authority’s Enforcement Guidelines (28 March 2023), Ofgem website
Penalty notice
Step 6 – Establish total financial liability

4.12.         Having considered all the relevant evidence and considerations as set out in our
              Policy Statement, as set out above, the Authority proposes to impose a penalty
              of £1,500,000 on Tomato Energy.

5. The Authority’s decision

5.1.          The Authority is satisfied that Tomato Energy has been in contravention of SLC
              4B.1 since at least 10 April 2025. Having considered the relevant facts and
              circumstances in its possession, and having regard to the Penalty Policy, the
              Authority hereby proposes to impose a penalty of £1,500,000 on Tomato
              Energy, which it considers to be an amount that is reasonable in all the
              circumstances of the case.

5.2.          In reaching its decision, the Authority took the relevant factors under the
              Penalty Policy into account, including but not limited to:
         i.      The serious and ongoing nature of the contravention.
        ii.      The material financial benefit to Tomato Energy, and the corresponding
                 financial and other detriment to Tomato Energy’s creditors
        iii.     The aggravating factors
        iv.      The necessity of sending a strong deterrent message to Tomato Energy and
                 the market.

5.3.          The Authority hereby gives notice under section 27A (3) of the EA 89 of its
              proposal to impose a penalty of £1,500,000 on Tomato Energy, in respect of
              the contraventions set out above.

5.4.          Any written representations or objections to this notice must be received by
              4pm on 3 November 2025.

5.5.          Any representations or objections duly made and not withdrawn by this date will
              be considered by the Authority before it makes a final decision on imposing a
              penalty. If as a result of representations or objections the Authority proposes to
              vary the penalty per section 27A(3)(a) EA 89, it will consult again in accordance
              with section 27A (4) EA 89.

5.6.          Any representations or objections received that are not marked as confidential
              may be published on the Ofgem website. Should you wish your response or part
              of your response to remain confidential, please indicate this clearly. The
Penalty notice
       Authority will consider whether to comply with any such requests on a case-by-
       case basis.



Dominic Alexander




Deputy Director (Enforcement)

Duly Authorised on behalf of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority

Date: 10 October 2025
