DETERMINATION OF MERGER NOTIFICATION M/26/039 –
BDO UK/BDO IRELAND

Section 21 of the Competition Act 2002

Proposed merger of BDO UK Partner Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of
BDO LLP and BDO Ireland LLP

Dated 16 June 2026


  Introduction

  1.        On 27 May 2026, in accordance with section 18(1)(a) of the Competition Act 2002, as
            amended (the “Act”), the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (the
            “Commission”) received a notification of a proposed transaction whereby BDO UK
            Partner Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of BDO LLP (“BDO UK”), would merge with
            BDO Ireland LLP (“BDO Ireland”) (the “Proposed Transaction”).

  The Proposed Transaction

  2.        The Proposed Transaction involves the following:

                 •    the making of a strategic investment by BDO UK in BDO Ireland through the
                      acquisition by BDO UK Partner Limited of a portion of the economic and voting
                      interests in BDO Ireland pursuant to the terms of a merger and co-operation
                      agreement dated 16 February 2026 between the Equity Partners1, BDO UK
                      Partner Limited, BDO UK and BDO Ireland (the “Merger Agreement”) and a
                      sales agreement dated 16 February 2026 between the Equity Sellers2, BDO UK
                      Partner Limited, BDO UK and BDO Ireland (the “Sales Agreement”); and

                 •    a merger of the economic interests of BDO Ireland and BDO UK by means of
                      profit sharing and common control.



  1 The Equity Partners are set out in Schedule 1 to the Merger Agreement.
  2 The Equity Sellers are set out in Schedule 1 to the Sales Agreement.




                                                                                                 1
                           Merger Notification No. M/26/039 – BDO UK/BDO Ireland
3.       The business activities of the undertakings involved are:

The Acquirer – BDO UK

     •    BDO UK Partner Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of BDO UK, is a special purpose
          vehicle incorporated for the purposes of the Proposed Transaction and has no other
          activities in Ireland or worldwide.

     •    The professional services offered by BDO UK can be categorised as follows:

                 (i)        Advisory: BDO UK’s deal practice provides services such as deal
                            advisory, business restructuring, economic consultancy and valuation.
                            BDO UK’s consulting, risk and outsourcing practice provides actuarial
                            services, financial modelling and risk advisory services.

                 (ii)       Audit and assurance: BDO UK provides audit and assurance services
                            such as external audit, financial reporting solutions, internal audit and
                            risk assurance, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
                            Practice (“GAAP”), US GAAP, International GAAP and International
                            Financial Reporting Standards services.

                 (iii)      Tax: BDO UK offers advice on corporate tax, capital allowances
                            services, tax dispute resolution, real estate and construction taxes and
                            various other tax related matters.

                 (iv)       Business services and outsourcing: BDO UK offers accounting and
                            business support services such as payroll, strategic resourcing,
                            technology advisory, company secretarial, business planning.

     •    BDO UK’s customers are UK and global businesses. However, BDO UK does generate
          some revenue in the State under the following circumstances:

                 (i)        BDO UK performs work in the UK for an international group and raises
                            an invoice to an Irish entity in the structure.




                                                                                                   2
                         Merger Notification No. M/26/039 – BDO UK/BDO Ireland
                   (ii)       BDO Ireland sub-contracts UK-related work to BDO UK on an Irish
                              mandate; BDO Ireland bills the client and remits the amount owing to
                              BDO UK.

The Target – BDO Ireland

      •    BDO Ireland operates in the State from its offices in Limerick and Dublin. The
           membership of BDO Ireland is comprised of the BDO Ireland Partnership Group3 and
           Mapalbay CLG4.

      •     BDO Ireland offers professional services is the State that can be categorised as
           follows:

                   (i)        Advisory: BDO Ireland advises on corporate finance, risk, accounting,
                              cyber and environmental, social and governance matters. Corporate
                              investment and business advisory services are also provided.

                   (ii)       Audit and assurance: BDO Ireland provides audit and accounting
                              services to companies of all scale.

                   (iii)      Tax: BDO Ireland advises on tax and compliance matters.

                   (iv)       Business services and outsourcing: BDO Ireland provides company
                              secretarial services and business outsourcing services. BDO Ireland
                              also provides business consultancy, corporate recovery and
                              transaction services. BDO Ireland also offers payroll and recruitment
                              services.




3 The BDO Ireland Partnership group includes:

   BDO -The Irish general partnership established under the Irish Partnership Act 1890 in respect of the audit
   services provided by the business named “BDO” (registered under CRO number 73365)
   BDO Advisory- The Irish general partnership established under the Irish Partnership Act 1890 in respect of the
   advisory services provided by the business named “BDO Advisory” (registered under CRO numbers 723405 and
   729370)
   BDO Tax- The Irish general partnership established under the Irish Partnership Act 1890 in respect of the tax
   services provided by the business named “BDO Tax” (registered under CRO numbers 723649 and 729386).
4 Mapalbay CLG is a company limited by guarantee registered in Ireland under registration number 798472




                                                                                                               3
                           Merger Notification No. M/26/039 – BDO UK/BDO Ireland
                 (v)      Consulting: BDO Ireland advises government departments, semi-
                          state organisations, and private sector clients on strategic planning,
                          operational efficiency, financial modelling, and public sector
                          governance.

4.       After examination of the notification, the Commission has concluded that the
         Proposed Transaction falls within the scope of paragraph 2.1 of the Simplified Merger
         Notification Procedure Guidelines for assessing certain notifiable mergers or
         acquisitions under section 18 of the Act since:

     •    one or more of the undertakings involved in the merger or acquisition are active in
          any market(s) which is upstream or downstream to a market(s) in which another
          undertaking involved is active, but the market share of each of the undertakings
          involved in each market is less than 25%; and

     •    none of the exclusions stipulated in paragraphs 2.8 to 2.15 of the SMNPG apply to
          the undertakings or the markets in which the undertakings operate.

Ancillary Restraints

5.       No ancillary restraints were notified.




                                                                                              4
                       Merger Notification No. M/26/039 – BDO UK/BDO Ireland
Determination

The Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, in accordance with section 21(2)(a)
of the Competition Act 2002, as amended, has determined that, in its opinion, the result of
the proposed transaction whereby BDO UK Partner Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of BDO
LLP, would merge with BDO Ireland LLP will not be to substantially lessen competition in any
market for goods or services in the State, and, accordingly, that the merger may be put into
effect.


For the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission




Alan Scarlett

Director

Mergers Division

Competition and Consumer Protection Commission




                                                                                          5
                    Merger Notification No. M/26/039 – BDO UK/BDO Ireland
