DETERMINATION OF MERGER NOTIFICATION M/26/006 –
UNITED HARDWARE/DERMOT KEHOE SUPPLY & DIY

Section 21 of the Competition Act 2002

Proposed acquisition by United Hardware Designated Activity Company,
through its wholly owned subsidiary Ardentia Limited, of sole control of
Kehoe’s Homevalue Limited

Dated 06 March 2026


  Introduction
  1.         On 26 January 2026, in accordance with section 18(1)(a) of the Competition Act 2002,
             as amended (the “Act”), the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (the
             “Commission”) received a notification (the “Merger Notification Form”) of a proposed
             acquisition whereby United Hardware Designated Activity Company (“United
             Hardware”), through its wholly owned subsidiary Ardentia Limited (“Ardentia”), would
             acquire the entire issued share capital, and thus sole control, of Kehoe’s Homevalue
             Limited (which trades as Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY) (“Kehoe’s”) (the “Proposed
             Transaction”).1


  The Proposed Transaction
  2.         The Proposed Transaction is to be implemented pursuant to a Share Purchase
             Agreement, which is currently being negotiated by United Hardware and two natural
             persons (the “Sellers”).2 The Commission considers that the undertakings involved
             have demonstrated a good faith intention to conclude an agreement for the purpose
             of section 18(1A)(b)(ii) of the Act.




  1 United Hardware and Kehoe’s are collectively referred to as the “Parties” hereafter.
  2 The Sellers are Dermot and Oonagh Kehoe who each hold 50% of the issued share capital of Kehoe’s. The Parties

       have provided the signed “                                 ” at Annexes 1 and 15 to the Merger Notification
       Form, which confirm the Parties’ agreement to
                    .


                                                                                                                1
              Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
The Undertakings Involved
The Acquirer – United Hardware

3.       United Hardware is a co-operative buying group which represents independent
         builders’ merchants, DIY, home and garden, and plumbing retail stores. United
         Hardware’s buying group is currently comprised of 185 individual member stores such
         as builders’ merchants and retail stores throughout the State (together, the
         “Members”).

4.       As a co-operative buying group, United Hardware provides its Members with
         increased purchasing power as well as marketing support and business advisory
         services. In particular, United Hardware:

             (i)        purchases building and DIY products from manufacturers outside the State,
                        which it in turn distributes nationally to its Members on an invoiced order
                        basis; and

             (ii)       negotiates order terms with product manufacturers and distributors in the
                        State on behalf of its Members.3

5.       United Hardware also manages and supplies the “Homevalue” brand on behalf of its
         Members, whereby:

           (i) Members may choose to operate under the Homevalue brand, subject to a
                   licence fee and compliance with the applicable terms and conditions;4 and

           (ii) United Hardware provides the Homevalue branded product range, which is
                   supplied exclusively to its members.5




3 Such terms relate to rebates, levies, settlement discounts, payment terms and marketing support. Members order

   the required products                       .         then         United Hardware for the       and United
   Hardware in turn                                       .
4 Eighty-eight of United Hardware’s 185 members have elected to operate under the Homevalue brand.
5 United Hardware’s Homevalue-branded product range is sold under the following labels: “The Garden

   Collection”; “Love Nature-Wild Bird Feed”; “Home Collection”; “Christmas Collection”; “The Major Collection”;
   “Acquaflex-Premium Garden Hose”; “The Bathroom Collection”; “PAINTZONE”; “SuperStrong”; “THE GIFT
   COMPANY”; “WeatherForce”; “HOME DÉCOR”; and “Milla”.


                                                                                                              2
          Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
6.        United Hardware was the subject of notified transaction M/22/062 – Associated
          Hardware limited/National Hardware, whereby Associated Hardware Public Limited
          Company and National Hardware Designated Activity Company formed United
          Hardware as a joint venture, which became the single buying group for the merging
          entities’ Members.6

7.        For the financial year ending 31 December 2024, United Hardware’s worldwide
          turnover was                      ,7 all of which was generated in the State.


Ardentia

8.        Ardentia is a wholly-owned subsidiary of United Hardware and was incorporated as
          an acquisition vehicle for the purposes of the Proposed Transaction. As such, Ardentia
          does not generate any turnover in the State.

The Target – Kehoe’s

9.        Kehoe’s is a supplier of building materials and DIY products based in New Ross, County
          Wexford. Kehoe’s product range offering includes: bathroom products; building
          materials; DIY products; doors & floors; fireside, heating and plumbing products;
          gardening products; homeware and giftware; paint; safety and workwear; and
          outdoor living.

10.       Kehoe’s is a United Hardware Member and also operates under the Homevalue
          brand.8 Kehoe’s currently purchases approximately                          of its DIY products and
          building materials from United Hardware.9

11.       For the financial year ending 31 December 2024, Kehoe’s worldwide turnover was
                         , all of which was generated in the State.10




6 M/22/062 – Associated Hardware/National Hardware , paragraph 6.
7 Merger Notification Form, Annex 7.
8 Merger Notification Form, paragraph 4.2.2.
9       suppliers currently provide                       of Kehoe’s stock. By value,   of this alternatively sourced
   stock pertains to DIY products and        is attributable to building materials.
10 Kehoe’s was incorporated in 2025 and has no annual report. Its turnover is that of Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY

   Ltd, following the transfer of the trade of this entity to Kehoe’s on 1st March 2025 upon its incorporation.


                                                                                                                   3
           Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
Rationale for the Proposed Transaction
12.      The Parties state the following in the Merger Notification Form:

                   “From the perspective of [United Hardware], [United Hardware] currently
                   operates as a distributor and buying group of building materials and DIY
                   products. The primary strategic objective of the Proposed Transaction is to
                   provide the [Sellers] with
                              , while preserving
                                                                        .

                   From the perspective of [Kehoe’s], the [Sellers] of [Kehoe’s] are retiring, and
                   the Proposed Transaction offers a commercially sound and strategically
                   appropriate succession plan for the business.”11


Third Party Submissions
13.      No third-party submissions were received.


Competitive Analysis
Horizontal Overlap

14.      In the Merger Notification Form, the Parties state that there is no horizontal overlap
         between United Hardware and Kehoe’s. The Commission has confirmed that there is
         no horizontal relationship between the Parties.

15.      Therefore, the Commission considers that the Proposed Transaction does not raise
         any horizontal competition concerns.


Vertical Relationship




11 Merger Notification Form, paragraphs 2.6.1 and 2.6.2.




                                                                                                4
          Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
16.      There is an actual vertical relationship between the activities of the Parties, as United
         Hardware provides buying group services (i.e., the supply of DIY products and building
         materials, as well as branding services) to Kehoe’s.12


Industry Background
Retail supply of building materials and DIY products

17.      Hardware stores such as Kehoe’s supply a large range of building materials and DIY
         products. Building materials include timber products, plumbing and heating supplies
         and cement products. DIY products typically refer to decorating supplies, paint and
         tools. Hardware stores can source their products directly from manufacturers or
         indirectly through buying groups as discussed above. Customers of retail suppliers of
         building materials and DIY products are made up of both ‘trade’ customers and ‘non-
         trade’ customers. Trade customers refer to trade professionals such as joiners and
         plumbers.


Buying group services

18.      Buying groups negotiate prices and terms with product manufacturers, on behalf of
         the buying group’s members. By leveraging the scale of their combined membership,
         buying groups are often able to negotiate better prices and terms than its members
         would be individually. Members of buying groups typically include independent
         builders’ merchants and independent retail stores, e.g., hardware and/or DIY stores.
         Membership of a buying group offers enhanced purchasing power, marketing support,
         logistics and business advisory services.


Branding services

19.      Suppliers of branding services provide their customers with the license to use its
         branded store name subject to certain terms and conditions. For example, the terms
         and conditions of branding services can include the use of the brand, logo and trade
         name, as well as stocking branded products and using advertising and promotional
         materials of the brand. As such, the retail customer will benefit from the brand


12 Kehoe pays a membership fee of    per annum to United Hardware.


                                                                                                5
          Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
         recognition and brand loyalty associated with the typically widely known and
         reputable brand name.


Market Definition
Relevant Market

Views of the Parties

20.      In the Merger Notification Form, the Parties state that the precise market definitions
         could be left open in this case but nevertheless provided information by reference to
         the following potential relevant markets:

              •    the retail supply of building materials within a 40km radius of Kehoe’s;

              •    the retail supply of DIY products within a 20km radius of Kehoe’s;

              •    the provision of buying group services for building materials and DIY products
                   in the State;

              •    the supply of building materials in the State; and

              •    the supply of DIY products in the State.13

Product markets

The retail supply of building materials and DIY products

Previous decisions of the Commission

21.      The Commission has considered the building materials sector on a number of
         occasions. In M/04/051 – Grafton/Heiton, the Commission’s predecessor, the
         Competition Authority (the “Authority”) identified the supply of building materials by
         builders’ merchants as a distinct product market to the “DIY superstore” retail
         market.14 This distinction was based on “significant structural and strategic


13 Merger Notification Form, paragraph 1.1.21.
14 M/04/051 – Grafton/Heiton, paragraph 7.1 and 7.2. The Authority included both “lightside” and “heavyside”

  building materials in its assessment, identifying lightside products as including plumbing, heating and electrical
  products, and heavyside products as including concrete blocks, bricks, cement, roofing products and timber,
  among others. The Authority noted that many lightside products may be available in DIY stores.


                                                                                                                  6
          Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
         differences, in terms of customer profile, product offering, terms of trade, opening
         hours and methods of delivery, and business infrastructure”, as well as “distinct pricing
         policies” between the two segments.15 The Authority categorised DIY superstores as
         ranging in size from 2,800-10,000m² and offering five broad product categories:
         building (bricks, cement, timber); DIY (tools, equipment); decorative (paint, wallpaper,
         tiles); housewares (furniture, kitchen utensils, soft furnishings); and gardening (plants,
         fertilisers, outdoor furniture).16 The Authority also considered a wider potential
         product market including sourcing directly from manufacturers. However, the
         Authority found that for customers it was “not practical for them to purchase from
         manufacturers”. As such, the Authority concluded that manufacturers or other
         methods of distribution did not exert a sufficient competitive constraint on builders’
         merchants to be part of the potential product market. Furthermore, the Authority
         identified a distinct product market for the retail supply of DIY products by “DIY
         superstores”, as distinct from hardware, homeware or tile stores.17

22.      In subsequent decisions, while ultimately leaving the precise product market
         definition open, the Commission assessed the following potential relevant product
         markets:

              •    the supply of building materials; and

              •    the supply of DIY products (i.e., by all retailers, including DIY superstores).18

23.      The Commission, while keeping the precise definition open, has also considered
         narrower potential product market definitions, including (i) the supply of architectural
         hardware products in M/20/040 – Chadwicks/Haylen; (ii) the distribution of
         construction accessories in M/21/080 – Grafton Group (Chadwicks)/Sitetech;19 and (iii)




15 M/04/051 – Grafton/Heiton, paragraph 1.13.
16 M/04/051 – Grafton/Heiton, paragraphs 3.2 and 3.5.
17 The Authority considered ‘DIY superstore’ characteristics, consumer surveys, competitors’ views and the parties’

  internal documents in coming to this view.
18 M/16/012 Home Project Centre/Saint-Gobain Building Distribution (ROI), M/23/051 – Chadwicks/Rooney’s,

  M/24/082 – B&Q/Certain Assets of Homebase.



                                                                                                                 7
           Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
         the retail supply of plumbing and heating products to professional customers in
         M/22/020 – Wolseley Group/Cooperstorm.20

Views of the Commission

24.      The Commission, in light of the above decisional practice, as well as the information
         available, has assessed the competitive effects of the Proposed Transaction by
         reference to a potential market for the retail supply of building materials and by
         reference to a potential market for the retail supply of DIY products, by all retailers
         including DIY superstores.

25.      The Commission considers that assessing the transaction against any of the potential
         narrower markets for types of building products would not alter the conclusions of
         the Commission’s assessment of the competitive effects of the Proposed Transaction.
         Therefore, the Commission has not found it necessary to conclude on the precise
         product market definition.

The provision of buying group services for building materials and DIY products

Previous decisions of the Commission

26.      In M/22/062 – Associated Hardware/National Hardware, while ultimately leaving the
         precise product market definition open, the Commission considered whether there
         was a specific product market for buying group services for building materials and DIY
         products that was separate from a broader potential product market for the
         distribution of building materials and DIY products.21 The Commission ultimately did
         not assess a potential product market for buying group services for building materials
         and DIY products (i.e., separate to potential markets for the supply of building
         materials and DIY products) as it did not affect the conclusions of the Commission’s
         analysis of the competitive impact of the proposed transaction.

Views of the Commission




20 M/22/020 – Wolseley Group/Cooperstorm, paragraph 21.
21 M/22/062 – Associated Hardware limited/National Hardware , paragraph 20.




                                                                                              8
          Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
27.      The Commission understands that providers of buying group services for building
         materials and DIY products provide those services for building materials and DIY
         products together (i.e., not specific to some subcategory of those), and that these
         buying groups do not provide those services for a wider set of products than building
         materials and DIY products. As a result, the Commission considers that the provision
         of buying group services for building materials and DIY products represents the
         appropriate scope of the product market. In any event, the Commission considers that
         the conclusions of its analysis would not change if the Proposed Transaction were
         assessed with respect to a narrower or wider potential product market.

28.      Therefore, in light of the above decision, as well as the information available, the
         Commission has assessed the competitive impact of the Proposed Transaction by
         reference to the provision of buying group services for building materials and DIY
         products.

The provision of branding services for retail suppliers of building materials and DIY products

Previous decisions of the Commission

29.      The Commission notes that in previous decisions, in markets unrelated to those in
         which the Parties are active, it has considered buying group services and branding
         services as two separate product markets.22 In M/21/079- Uniphar/NaviCorp, the
         Commission cited “differences in functionality and pricing” as to why the provision of
         buying group services is not in the same potential market as the provision of branding
         services.23

Views of the Commission

30.      The Commission understands that, for each provider of these services, the branding
         services for retail suppliers of building materials and DIY products are available
         separately to buying group membership, and are an optional extra for each member,
         with the exception of Expert Hardware, for whom all members avail of branding



22 For example, see M/21/079-Uniphar/NaviCorp, paragraphs 3.36-3.44, 3.65-3.76.
23 M/21/079-Uniphar/NaviCorp, paragraph 3.71.




                                                                                                 9
          Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
         services. Nevertheless, the Commission considers that, given the functional difference
         in the services, and that not all providers of buying group services for building
         materials and DIY products also supply branding services, the provision of these
         branding services should be assessed as a separate potential product market to that
         of buying group services for building materials and DIY products, as a conservative
         approach.

31.      The Commission further considers that, as the suppliers of these branding services do
         not provide these services to businesses in other markets, that the supply of branding
         services to retail suppliers of building materials and DIY products is the appropriate
         scope of the potential product market. For completeness, the Commission notes that
         the conclusions of its analysis would not change if considered with respect to a
         narrower potential product market for the provision of branding services (i.e. branding
         services specifically for suppliers of building materials or DIY products).

32.      Therefore, in light of the above decision, as well as the information available, the
         Commission has assessed the competitive impact of the Proposed Transaction by
         reference to the provision of branding services for retail suppliers of building materials
         and DIY products.

Geographic Market

The retail supply of building materials and DIY products

Previous decisions of the Commission

33.      In M/04/051 – Grafton/Heiton,24 the Commission assessed the supply of building
         materials (by builders’ merchants) on a local basis within a catchment area of 5-10
         miles in the case of Dublin and Cork cities, and 20-25 miles radius elsewhere in the
         State. In that case, the Commission considered a local market due to “customer
         preference to source locally and an absence of national pricing.”25 In this merger, the
         Authority also adopted two relevant geographic markets for the retail supply of DIY



24 M/04/051 – Grafton/Heiton, paragraphs 7.7-7.9.
25 M/04/051 – Grafton/Heiton, paragraph 7.9.




                                                                                                10
          Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
         products by DIY superstores with different catchment areas based on location, i.e., 4-
         5 miles for large urban areas and 10-15 miles elsewhere in the State. 26

34.      In each of M/20/040 – Chadwicks/Haylen;27 M/21/080 – Grafton Group
         (Chadwicks)/Sitetech;28 and M/22/020 – Wolseley Group/Cooperstorm,29 the
         Commission followed the same approach to the geographic market as in M/04/051 –
         Grafton/Heiton. In M/23/051 – Chadwicks/Rooney’s,30 the Commission assessed the
         transaction by reference to the supply of building materials in both (i) a 40km (i.e., 20-
         25 mile) radius of the target store; and (ii) the State. In that case, the Commission
         noted that due to the “target store’s rural location in Kells, Co. Meath,” it did not
         consider the “smaller radii of the catchment areas” previously considered in
         M/20/040 – Chadwicks/Haylen for example, as “they related to urban settings.”31

35.      In each of M/16/012 – Home Project Centre/Saint-Gobain Building Distribution (ROI);
         M/23/051 – Chadwicks/Rooney’s; and M/24/082 – B&Q/Certain Assets of Homebase,
         the Commission assessed the competitive effects of the proposed transaction by
         reference to both a local geographic market (i.e., the retail supply of DIY products
         within a 20km radius of the target) and a broader geographic market (i.e., the State).32

Views of the Commission

36.      The Commission, in light of the above decisional practice, the rural location of the
         Kehoe’s store and the information available, has assessed the competitive effects of
         the Proposed Transaction by reference to:




26 M/04/051 – Grafton/Heiton, paragraphs 3.16-3.17.
27 The Commission assessed the transaction by reference to the potential market for the supply of architectural

   hardware products. M/20/040 – Chadwicks/Haylen, paragraphs 16-22.
28  The Commission assessed the transaction by reference to the potential market for the distribution of
   construction accessories. M/21/080 – Grafton Group (Chadwicks)/Sitetech, paragraphs 20-28.
29 The Commission assessed the transaction by reference to the potential market for the retail supply of plumbing

   and heating products to professional customers. M/22/020 – Wolseley Group/Cooperstorm, paragraph 21.
30 M/23/051 – Chadwicks/Rooney’s, paragraph 34.
31 M/23/051 – Chadwicks/Rooney’s, paragraph 33.
32 M/16/012 Home Project Centre/Saint-Gobain Building Distribution (ROI), paragraph 16. M/23/051 –

   Chadwicks/Rooney’s, paragraph 38. M/24/082 – B&Q/Certain Assets of Homebase, paragraphs 31-33.


                                                                                                             11
          Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
                •   a potential national market and to a potential market for the retail supply of
                    building materials within 40km of Kehoe’s store; and

                •   a potential national market and to a potential market for the retail supply of
                    DIY products within a 20km radius of Kehoe’s store.

37.      The Commission considers that assessing the Proposed Transaction on the basis of a
         different geographic frame of reference (i.e. narrower or wider local market) will not
         alter the conclusions of the Commission’s assessment of the competitive effects of the
         Proposed Transaction. Therefore, it is not necessary to conclude on the precise
         geographic market definition.

The provision of buying group services for building materials and DIY products

Previous decisions of the Commission

38.      The Commission did not consider it necessary to define a precise geographic market
         as it would not alter the conclusions of the Commission’s assessment of the
         competitive impact of the proposed transaction. 33 The Parties submit that buying
         group services for building materials and DIY products are supplied nationally.

Views of the Commission

39.      The Commission considers that it is not necessary in the present case to conclude on
         the precise geographic market definition as doing so will not alter the Commission’s
         assessment of the competitive impact of the Proposed Transaction. On the basis of
         the information received from the Parties, third parties, and the Commission’s own
         research, the Commission understands that buying groups for building materials and
         DIY products in the State operate on a national basis.34 Accordingly, the Commission
         has assessed the competitive effects of the Proposed Transaction by reference to the
         provision of buying group services on a national basis, i.e., in the State.

The provision of branding services for retail suppliers of building materials and DIY products



33 M/22/062 – Associated Hardware limited/National Hardware , paragraph 22-24.
34 For example, Allied Merchants Buying Association; Amalgamated Hardware plc (Topline) and Expert Hardware

  Limited.


                                                                                                        12
             Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
Views of the Commission

40.    The Commission considers that it is not necessary in the present case to conclude on
       the precise geographic market definition as doing so will not alter the Commission’s
       assessment of the competitive impact of the Proposed Transaction. As with buying
       groups, the Commission understands that suppliers of branding services for retail
       suppliers of building materials and DIY products and suppliers of building materials
       and DIY products in the State operate on a national basis.              Accordingly, the
       Commission has assessed the competitive effects of the Proposed Transaction by
       reference to the provision of branding services for retail suppliers of building materials
       and DIY products on a national basis, i.e., in the State.


Commission’s conclusion on relevant markets

41.    The Commission defines markets to the extent necessary, depending on the particular
       circumstances of a given case. In this instance, it is not necessary for the Commission
       to define the precise relevant markets, as the Proposed Transaction is unlikely to raise
       concerns when assessed against any potential relevant market.

42.    For the purposes of carrying out its competitive assessment of the Proposed
       Transaction, the Commission has assessed the Proposed Transaction by reference to
       the following potential markets:

       (i)     the provision of buying group services for building materials and DIY products
               in the State;

       (ii)    the provision of branding services for retail suppliers of building materials and
               DIY products in the State;

       (iii)   the retail supply of building materials in the State;

       (iv)    the retail supply of building materials within a 40km radius of Kehoe’s;

       (v)     the retail supply of DIY products within a 20km radius of Kehoe’s; and

       (vi)    the retail supply of DIY products in the State.


                                                                                              13
        Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
Competitive effects

Vertical effects

43.       As stated above, there are actual vertical relationships between the Parties as United
          Hardware provides buying group services as well as branding services to Kehoe’s.

44.       Kehoe’s sources            of its DIY products and building materials either directly from
          United Hardware or via terms negotiated by United Hardware.35 United Hardware also
          provides Kehoe’s with branding services as a Member.36

The provision of buying group services for building materials and DIY products in the State

Input foreclosure


45.       Table 1 (below) lists estimated market shares in the supply of buying group services
          for DIY products and building materials in the State.

Table 1: The supply of buying group services for DIY products and building materials in the State in 2024


         Buying Group                         Estimated Retail Value of Share (%)
                                              Stock Negotiated and/or
                                              Purchased by Buying
                                              Groups (€ million/per
                                              annum)


         United Hardware                                                        [30-35]


         Amalgamated Hardware                                                   [40-45]
         plc (Topline) (“Topline”)


         Allied Merchants Buying                                                [20-25]
         Association      (“Allied
         Merchants”)




35 Merger Notification Form, paragraph 1.1.19. This relationship amounted to a value of €6,173,240 in the most

  recent financial year.
36 Merger Notification Form, paragraph 1.1.19. Kehoe’s pays an annual membership fee of €9,000 to United

  Hardware.


                                                                                                            14
           Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
         Expert Hardware Limited                                      [0-5]
         (“Expert Hardware”)


         Total                                                        100

Source: The Parties

46.       While United Hardware had a share of [30-35]% of supply of stock negotiated and/or
          purchased, by value, in 2024, the Commission considers that the Proposed Transaction
          is unlikely to create any incentive or ability for United Hardware to foreclose retailers
          from access to buying group, for the following reasons:

          a) Rival buyer groups Topline and Allied Merchants also operate nationally and offer
               viable alternatives for retailers. Topline is a buying group with approximately 90
               members and a share of [40-45]% in supply of stock negotiated and/or purchased,
               by value, in 2024, across 160 independently owned and operated stores located
               in the State,37 and also offers branding services. Allied Merchants is a buying group
               with 23 members spanning across 193 local stores in the State and had a share of
               [20-25]% of supply of stock negotiated and/or purchased, by value, in 2024.38
               Members would be able to switch to an alternative buyer group if United
               Hardware were to engage in any foreclosure strategy.

          b) United Hardware is a co-operative buying group owned by its members. The
               acquisition by United Hardware of one member retail store would not materially
               affect United Hardware’s core purpose, which is to supply its members. This
               purpose will not be affected by the Proposed Transaction.

          c) While it is true that, following the Proposed Transaction, other members of United
               Hardware will also be downstream rival retailers, the Commission does not
               consider that the acquisition of a single member would give United Hardware an
               incentive to engage in input foreclosure. Even if United Hardware would consider
               foreclosing its members, Kehoe’s only accounts for a small proportion of United



37 About Us – Topline.
38 About Us - Allied Merchants .




                                                                                                 15
           Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
             Hardware’s total supply, and a small share of the retail supply of building materials
             and DIY products at either local or national level. United Hardware therefore
             would have no incentive to attempt a foreclosure strategy, as the amount it would
             gain on the downstream markets would be highly unlikely to make up for losses
             and reputational damage from input foreclosure.

Customer foreclosure


47.     Similarly, the Proposed Transaction is unlikely to increase the incentive or ability for
        United Hardware to foreclose wholesalers or rival buying groups from access to
        Kehoe’s as a customer.

48.     United Hardware, through its          member stores, accounts for approximately [10-
        15]% of the supply of building materials in the State and approximately [10-15]% of
        the supply of DIY products in the State. The change of one store from being an
        independently owned member (which already obtains                 of its supply through
        United Hardware’s buying group), to being under the control of the buying group,
        would not give the merged entity the ability to engage in customer foreclosure, nor
        would it materially affect wholesalers’ ability to access customers. Kehoe’s, as a single
        retail supplier of building materials and DIY products, is too small for a customer
        foreclosure strategy to have any impact on upstream suppliers’ ability to compete.
        Further, rival buying groups are owned by their respective members, and no
        foreclosure strategy pursued by United Hardware could limit these rivals’ access to
        their member customers or foreclose any wholesalers that supply through these rival
        buying groups or directly to their members.

The provision of branding services for retail suppliers of building materials and DIY products
in the State

Input foreclosure


49.     The Commission does not have exhaustive market share estimates for the market for
        the provision of branding services for retail suppliers of building materials and DIY
        products in the State. However, the Commission considers that, on the basis available
        to it, the Proposed Transaction would not create any incentive or ability for United


                                                                                               16
         Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
         Hardware to foreclose retailers from access to buying group or branding services, for
         the following reasons:

           a) United Hardware supplies branding services to           retailers, out of    members
                in total in the State. It is therefore the case, for at least some large proportion of
                United Hardware members, that not availing of branding services (and operating
                as an own-brand retailer) is a viable option. For those members for whom
                branding services is an essential service, rival buyer groups Topline and Expert
                Hardware also operate nationally and offer viable alternatives for retailers.
                Topline is a buying group with approximately 90 members and a share of [40-
                45]% in supply of stock negotiated and/or purchased, by value, in 2024, across
                160 independently owned and operated stores located in the State,39 and also
                offers branding services. Expert Hardware, while having a membership
                consisting of generally smaller retail hardware stores, also operates nationally
                and provides branding services to       stores in the State.

           b) United Hardware is a co-operative owned by its members. The acquisition by
                United Hardware of one member retail store would not materially affect United
                Hardware’s core purpose, which is to supply its members. This purpose will not
                be affected by the Proposed Transaction.

           c) While it is true that, following the Proposed Transaction, other members of
                United Hardware will also be downstream rival retailers, the Commission does
                not consider that the acquisition of a single member would give United
                Hardware an incentive to engage in input foreclosure. Even if United Hardware
                would consider foreclosing its members, Kehoe’s only accounts for a small
                proportion of United Hardware’s total supply, and a small share of the retail
                supply of building materials and DIY products at either local or national level.
                United Hardware therefore would have no incentive to attempt a foreclosure
                strategy, as the amount it would gain on the downstream markets would be




39 About Us – Topline.




                                                                                                   17
           Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
             highly unlikely to make up for losses and reputational damage from input
             foreclosure.

Customer foreclosure


50.     Similarly, the Proposed Transaction is unlikely to increase the incentive or ability for
        United Hardware to foreclose wholesalers or rival suppliers of branding services from
        access to Kehoe’s as a customer. The Commission notes that Kehoe’s currently receives
        all its branding services from United Hardware. As such, the Commission considers
        that this reduces the impact of customer foreclosure on the merged entity as Kehoe’s
        are not currently receiving branding services from any of United Hardware’s
        competitors for branding services. The change of one store from being an
        independently owned member, to being under the control of United Hardware, would
        not give the merged entity the ability to engage in customer foreclosure, nor would it
        materially affect other providers of branding services ability to access customers.

Conclusion on vertical effects

51.     Therefore, for the reasons set out above, the Commission considers that the Proposed
        Transaction does not raise any vertical competition concerns in the State.

Conclusion of Competitive Analysis

52.     In light of the above, the Commission considers that the Proposed Transaction will not
        substantially lessen competition in any market for goods or services in the State.


Ancillary Restraints
53.     No ancillary restraints were notified.




                                                                                              18
         Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
Determination
The Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, in accordance with section 21(2)(a)
of the Competition Act 2002, as amended, has determined that, in its opinion, the result of
the proposed acquisition whereby United Hardware Designated Activity Company, through its
wholly-owned subsidiary Ardentia Limited, would acquire the entire issued share capital, and
thus sole control, of Kehoe’s Homevalue Limited (which trades as Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY)
will not be to substantially lessen competition in any market for goods or services in the State,
and, accordingly, that the acquisition may be put into effect.


For the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission




Geoffrey Gray

Member

Competition and Consumer Protection Commission




                                                                                              19
         Merger Notification No. M/26/006 – United Hardware/Dermot Kehoe Supply & DIY
