United States
Department of
                  Fayaz Khazi, Ph.D.
Agriculture       The Traits Company
Animal and
                  104 T.W. Alexander Drive, Bldg. 1,
Plant Health      Research Triangle Park, NC 27713
Inspection
Service
                  Re: Confirmation of the regulatory status of genome-edited soybean lines with improved
Biotechnology
Regulatory
                  yield
Services

4700 River Road
                  Dear Dr. Khazi:
Riverdale, MD
20737             Thank you for your letter dated July 29, 2025 (25-226-01air), inquiring whether the
                  soybean (Glycine max) product described in your letter is a regulated article under 7 CFR
                  part 340. Your letter describes the use of CRISPR/Cas genome editing, which will result
                  in the described phenotype(s) to improve soybean yield.

                  The Plant Protection Act of 2000 (PPA) provides USDA with broad authority to protect
                  U.S. agriculture, the environment, and the economy by, among other things, regulating
                  the introduction of plants and articles to prevent the dissemination or establishment of a
                  plant pest within the United States. As such, USDA, through the Animal and Plant Health
                  Inspection Service, regulates the “Introduction of Organisms and Products Altered or
                  Produced Through Genetic Engineering Which are Plant Pests or Which There is Reason
                  to Believe Are Plant Pests,” as described in 7 CFR part 340. These regulations only apply
                  to organisms that USDA deems regulated articles under § 340.1.

                  In your letter, you describe your use of CRISPR/Cas to induce indels in 600 targeted
                  soybean gene sequences related to yield improvement but claimed as confidential
                  business information (CBI). Your method will create gene edits via targeted DNA breaks
                  in CBI genes using one or multiple guide RNAs, followed by natural cellular repair in the
                  absence of an exogenous repair template. You state that foreign DNA, including plant
                  pest DNA, will be absent in the final products, and that this will be confirmed by methods
                  claimed as CBI.

                  Based on the representations you made in your letter, including your description of your
                  confirmation methods, your soybean lines are not themselves plant pests and no plant
                  pest sequences will remain integrated in the genome of soybean. Consistent with previous
                  responses to similar letters of inquiry, USDA would not consider your modified soybean
                  lines to be regulated pursuant to 7 CFR part 340.

                  Although your modified soybean would not be regulated under 7 CFR part 340, it may be
                  subject to other USDA regulations or other regulatory authorities. For example,
                  importation of your soybean or its seeds may be subject to Plant Protection and
                  Quarantine (PPQ) permit and/or quarantine requirements. For further information, you
                  may contact the PPQ general number for such inquiries at (877) 770-5990. To inquire
                  about the regulatory status of your plant with the Environmental Protection Agency,
                  please contact Alan Reynolds at reynolds.alan@epa.gov or (703) 605-0515. To inquire
                                                                   The Traits Company
                                                                                Page 2


about the regulatory status of your plant with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
please contact FDA at PlantBiotech@fda.hhs.gov.

Should you become aware at any time of any issues that may affect USDA’s conclusion
regarding this inquiry, you should immediately notify us in writing of the nature of the
issue.

Sincerely,

                       Digitally signed by DONNA

DONNA LALLI            LALLI
                       Date: 2025.09.19 16:53:18
                       -04'00'

Donna A. Lalli, Ph.D.
APHIS Deputy Administrator
Biotechnology Regulatory Services
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
U.S. Department of Agriculture
