United States
Department of
                  LaSemilla. Co. Ltd
Agriculture       1447 Pyeongchang-ro, Pyeongchang,
Animal and
                  Gangwon, 25354, Rep of Korea
Plant Health
Inspection
Service
                  Re: Confirmation of the regulatory status of genome-edited rice lines with drought
                  tolerance
Biotechnology
Regulatory
Services          Dear Dr. Se-Jun Oh:
4700 River Road
Riverdale, MD     Thank you for your letter received January 5, 2026 (25-364-01air), inquiring whether the
20737             rice (Oryza sativa (L.)) product described in your letter is a regulated article under 7 CFR
                  part 340. Your letter describes the use of CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing, resulting in the
                  desired drought tolerance.

                  The Plant Protection Act of 2000 (PPA) provides USDA with broad authority to protect
                  U.S. agriculture, the environment, and the economy by, among other things, regulating
                  the introduction of plants and articles to prevent the dissemination or establishment of a
                  plant pest within the United States. As such, USDA, through the Animal and Plant Health
                  Inspection Service, regulates the “Introduction of Organisms and Products Altered or
                  Produced Through Genetic Engineering Which are Plant Pests or Which There is Reason
                  to Believe Are Plant Pests,” as described in 7 CFR part 340. These regulations only apply
                  to organisms that USDA deems regulated articles under § 340.1.

                  In your letter, you describe your use of disarmed Agrobacterium tumefaciens to deliver a
                  construct containing CRISPR/Cas9 reagents into rice plants to create a deletion in the
                  targeted gene claimed as confidential business information (CBI). You state that you
                  used conventional breeding techniques to remove the inserted construct DNA. You
                  confirmed the absence of inserted DNA sequences, including plant pest sequences, using
                  polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis with PCR primers that span the entire T-DNA
                  region and the vector backbone.

                  Based on the representations you made in your letter, including your description of the
                  results of your confirmation methods, your rice lines are not themselves plant pests and
                  no plant pest sequences remain integrated into the genome of rice. Consistent with
                  previous responses to similar letters of inquiry, USDA does not consider your rice lines
                  to be regulated pursuant to 7 CFR part 340.

                  Although your modified rice is not regulated under 7 CFR part 340, it may be subject to
                  other USDA regulations or other regulatory authorities. For example, importation of your
                  plant or its seeds may be subject to Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) permit and/or
                  quarantine requirements. For further information, you may contact the PPQ general
                  number for such inquiries at (877) 770-5990. To inquire about the regulatory status of
                  your plant with the Environmental Protection Agency, please contact Alan Reynolds at
                  reynolds.alan@epa.gov or (703) 605-0515. To inquire about the regulatory status of your
                                                                     LaSemilla. Co. Ltd
                                                                                 Page 2


plant with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), please contact FDA at
PlantBiotech@fda.hhs.gov.

Should you become aware at any time of any issues that may affect USDA’s conclusion
regarding this inquiry, you should immediately notify us in writing of the nature of the
issue.

Sincerely,

                         Digitally signed by DONNA

DONNA LALLI              LALLI
                         Date: 2026.01.28 13:07:29
                         -05'00'

Donna A. Lalli, Ph.D
APHIS Deputy Administrator
Biotechnology Regulatory Services
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
U.S. Department of Agriculture
