United States
Department of
                  Sarah Forrester
Agriculture       Inari Agriculture, Inc.
Animal and
                  One Kendall Square
Plant Health      Building 600/700, Suite 7-501
Inspection
Service
                  Cambridge, MA 02139

Biotechnology
Regulatory
                  Re: Confirmation of the regulatory status of gene edited wheat lines with increased yield
Services          and modified plant architecture
4700 River Road
Riverdale, MD     Dear Sarah Forrester:
20737

                  Thank you for your letter received November 13, 2025 (25-317-01air), inquiring whether
                  the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) product described in your letter is a regulated article
                  under 7 CFR part 340. Your letter describes CRISPR-Cas gene editing, resulting in the
                  desired increased yield and modified plant architecture.

                  The Plant Protection Act of 2000 (PPA) provides USDA with broad authority to protect
                  U.S. agriculture, the environment, and the economy by, among other things, regulating
                  the introduction of plants and articles to prevent the dissemination or establishment of a
                  plant pest within the United States. As such, USDA, through the Animal and Plant Health
                  Inspection Service, regulates the “Introduction of Organisms and Products Altered or
                  Produced Through Genetic Engineering Which are Plant Pests or Which There is Reason
                  to Believe Are Plant Pests,” as described in 7 CFR part 340. These regulations only apply
                  to organisms that USDA deems regulated articles under § 340.1.

                  In your letter, you describe your CRISPR-Cas mediated gene editing technology for non-
                  templated repair of targeted double stranded breaks to modify wheat genes claimed as
                  confidential business information (CBI). You used and will use Agrobacterium-mediated
                  transformation to introduce constructs into wheat to create edits in CBI target genes
                  individually or in combination to obtain increased yield and modified plant architecture.
                  You state that you will use conventional breeding to remove vector sequences and
                  confirm the absence of vector sequences using quantitative-PCR assays that will cover
                  every genetic element in your transformation vector.

                  Based on the representations you made in your letter, including your description of your
                  confirmation methods, your wheat lines are not themselves plant pests and you attest that
                  no plant pest sequences will remain integrated into the genome of wheat. Consistent with
                  previous responses to similar letters of inquiry, USDA does not consider your modified
                  wheat lines to be regulated pursuant to 7 CFR part 340.

                  Although your modified wheat is not regulated under 7 CFR part 340, it may be subject
                  to other USDA regulations or other regulatory authorities. For example, importation of
                  your plant or its seeds may be subject to Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) permit
                  and/or quarantine requirements. For further information, you may contact the PPQ
                  general number for such inquiries at (877) 770-5990. To inquire about the regulatory
                                                                  Inari Agriculture, Inc.
                                                                                  Page 2


status of your plant with the Environmental Protection Agency, please contact Alan
Reynolds at reynolds.alan@epa.gov or (703) 605-0515. To inquire about the regulatory
status of your plant with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), please contact FDA
at PlantBiotech@fda.hhs.gov.

Should you become aware at any time of any issues that may affect USDA’s conclusion
regarding this inquiry, you should immediately notify us in writing of the nature of the
issue.

Sincerely,

                         Digitally signed by DONNA

DONNA LALLI              LALLI
                         Date: 2025.12.09 12:21:16
                         -05'00'

Donna A. Lalli, Ph.D
APHIS Deputy Administrator
Biotechnology Regulatory Services
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
U.S. Department of Agriculture
