United States
Department of
                  Hiroki Komatsu
Agriculture       Advanced Breeding Technology Group,
Animal and
                  Agri, Bio Resource and Technology Development,
Plant Health      Global Agricultural Research & Business Center, KAGOME Co., LTD.
Inspection
Service
                  Re: Confirmation of the regulatory status of gene edited tomato with altered fruit quality
Biotechnology
Regulatory
Services          Dear Hiroki Komatsu:
4700 River Road
Riverdale, MD     Thank you for your letter dated January 8, 2026 (26-009-01air), inquiring whether the
20737             tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) product described in your letter is a regulated article
                  under 7 CFR part 340. Your letter describes genome edited tomato developed using
                  CRISPR-Cas, resulting in the desired altered fruit quality.

                  The Plant Protection Act of 2000 (PPA) provides USDA with broad authority to protect
                  U.S. agriculture, the environment, and the economy by, among other things, regulating
                  the introduction of plants and articles to prevent the dissemination or establishment of a
                  plant pest within the United States. As such, USDA, through the Animal and Plant Health
                  Inspection Service, regulates the “Introduction of Organisms and Products Altered or
                  Produced Through Genetic Engineering Which are Plant Pests or Which There is Reason
                  to Believe Are Plant Pests,” as described in 7 CFR part 340. These regulations only apply
                  to organisms that USDA deems regulated articles under § 340.1.

                  In your letter, you describe how you used particle bombardment to transiently introduce
                  non-integrating plasmids with gene-editing elements into tomato to introduce edits in
                  target genes, claimed as confidential business information (CBI), through DNA repair
                  without the presence of an externally provided DNA template. You used polymerase
                  chain reaction (PCR), T7 Endonuclease I cleavage assay, and Sanger sequencing to
                  confirm modifications to the target genes. You subsequently used conventional breeding
                  methods and PCR to confirm the absence of unintended insertion of plasmid sequences.

                  Based on the representations you made in your letter, including your description of the
                  results of your confirmation methods, your tomato plants are not themselves plant pests
                  and no plant pest sequences were integrated into the genome of tomato. Consistent with
                  previous responses to similar letters of inquiry, USDA does not consider your tomato
                  plants to be regulated pursuant to 7 CFR part 340.

                  Although your modified tomato is not regulated under 7 CFR part 340, it may be subject
                  to other USDA regulations or other regulatory authorities. For example, importation of
                  your plant or its seeds may be subject to Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) permit
                  and/or quarantine requirements. For further information, you may contact the PPQ
                  general number for such inquiries at (877) 770-5990. To inquire about the regulatory
                  status of your plant with the Environmental Protection Agency, please contact Alan
                  Reynolds at reynolds.alan@epa.gov or (703) 605-0515. To inquire about the regulatory
                                                                   KAGOME Co., LTD.
                                                                             Page 2


status of your plant with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), please contact FDA
at PlantBiotech@fda.hhs.gov.

Should you become aware at any time of any issues that may affect USDA’s conclusion
regarding this inquiry, you should immediately notify us in writing of the nature of the
issue.

Sincerely,

                        Digitally signed by DONNA

DONNA LALLI             LALLI
                        Date: 2026.02.10 15:35:18
                        -05'00'


Donna A. Lalli, Ph.D.
APHIS Deputy Administrator
Biotechnology Regulatory Services
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
U.S. Department of Agriculture
