       DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES                                       Public Health Service



                                                                                   Food and Drug Administration
                                                                                   Silver Spring, MD 20993


March 9, 2026

Juno Therapeutics Inc., a Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
Attention: Nicole Van De Vaarst/Amanda Pisciotta
3401 Princeton Pike
Lawrence Township, NJ 08648

RE:       BREYANZI (lisocabtagene maraleucel)
          BLA 125714/733, 735

Dear Ms. Van De Vaarst and Ms. Pisciotta:

The Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch (APLB) of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) has reviewed various promotional materials for BREYANZI®
(lisocabtagene maraleucel) suspension, for intravenous infusion, from Juno Therapeutics
Inc., a Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) that include exploratory analyses, such as
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) data and Overall Survival (OS) data, in conjunction with
representations or suggestions that BREYANZI is effective for these types of clinical benefits.
See, for example:

      •   BREYANZI HCP Website Campaign Update 1 -CLL (2009-US-2500225)
      •   Promotional Labeling, Breyanzi HCP CTAM LBCL CVA - dPDF Q3 2025 Update
          (2009-US-2500682)

The promotional materials make false or misleading claims and representations about the
benefits of BREYANZI. Thus, the promotional materials misbrand BREYANZI within the
meaning of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) and make its distribution
violative. 21 U.S.C. 321(n); 331(a); 352(a), (n). See 21 CFR 202.1(e)(5). These violations are
particularly concerning from a public health perspective because the promotional materials
make misleading representations about BREYANZI being more effective or having greater
clinical benefit than has been demonstrated. This may cause doctors and patients to
inaccurately weigh the risks versus benefits of treatment with BREYANZI, which can be fatal
or life-threatening.




1
    The website is available at: https://www.BREYANZIhcp.com/ (last accessed March 2026).
Van De Vaarst and Pisciotta                                                Page 2
Juno Therapeutics Inc., a Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
BREYANZI (lisocabtagene maraleucel) - BLA 125714/733, 735

Background

According to the FDA-approved prescribing information (PI) for BREYANZI:

BREYANZI is a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous T cell immunotherapy
indicated for the treatment of:

   •   adult patients with large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL), including diffuse large B-cell
       lymphoma (DLBCL) not otherwise specified (including DLBCL arising from indolent
       lymphoma), high-grade B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal large B-cell
       lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma grade 3B, who have:
       o refractory disease to first-line chemoimmunotherapy or relapse within 12
          months of first-line chemoimmunotherapy; or
       o refractory disease to first-line chemoimmunotherapy or relapse after first-line
          chemoimmunotherapy and are not eligible for hematopoietic stem cell
          transplantation (HSCT) due to comorbidities or age; or
       o relapsed or refractory disease after 2 or more lines of systemic therapy.
       o Limitations of Use: BREYANZI is not indicated for the treatment of patients with
          primary central nervous system lymphoma.
   •   adult patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or
       small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) who have received at least 2 prior lines of
       therapy, including a Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor and a B-cell lymphoma
       2 (BCL-2) inhibitor. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based
       on response rate and duration of response. Continued approval for this indication
       may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in
       confirmatory trial(s).
   •   adult patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) who have
       received 2 or more prior lines of systemic therapy. This indication is approved
       under accelerated approval based on response rate and duration of response.
       Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and
       description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial(s).
   •   adult patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have
       received at least 2 prior lines of systemic therapy, including a Bruton tyrosine
       kinase (BTK) inhibitor.
   •   adult patients with relapsed or refractory marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) who
       have received at least 2 prior lines of systemic therapy.

The PI for BREYANZI also includes a BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND
PRECAUTIONS including, but not limited to, fatal or life-threatening reactions of Cytokine
Release Syndrome, fatal or life-threatening neurological toxicities, secondary
malignancies, fatal or life-threatening severe infections, prolonged cytopenia,
hypogammaglobulinemia, and fatal or life-threatening Immune Effector Cell-Associated
Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis-Like Syndrome.

BREYANZI’s CLL, SLL, and FL indications were approved under the accelerated
approval pathway. This pathway can allow for earlier approval of drugs intended to treat
serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. Accelerated approval is based on an
effect on a surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoint that is thought to be reasonably
Van De Vaarst and Pisciotta                                                            Page 3
Juno Therapeutics Inc., a Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
BREYANZI (lisocabtagene maraleucel) - BLA 125714/733, 735

likely to predict clinical benefit, rather than on a direct measurement of clinical benefit.
FDA has required sponsors of drugs approved under the accelerated approval pathway,
including BREYANZI, to conduct a confirmatory trial to verify and describe the clinical
benefit of the drug. 2

False or Misleading Benefit Presentation

Prescription drug advertisements and labeling (promotional communications) misbrand a
drug if they are false or misleading with respect to efficacy. The determination of whether
a promotional communication is misleading includes, among other things, not only
representations made or suggested in the promotional communication, but also the
extent to which the promotional communication fails to reveal facts material in light of the
representations made or with respect to consequences that may result from the use of
the drug as recommended or suggested in the promotional communication. See section
201(n) of the FD&C Act, 21 U.S.C. 321(n).

You include representations in BREYANZI’s promotional materials suggesting that it is
effective in providing PFS and OS benefits for CLL, SLL, and FL indications. For
example, BREYANZI’s healthcare professional website includes headlines such as, “74%
of patients survived with no signs of disease progression at 18 months [PFS in the
TRANSCEND FL trial],” “Median PFS of 12 months was observed in TRANSCEND
CLL 004,” and “Median OS of 33.6 months was observed in TRANSCEND CLL 004.”
Your presentations include data for time-to-event endpoints from this single-arm trial,
such as PFS and OS, that have statistical limitations rendering such endpoints
uninterpretable. Specifically, TRANSCEND was designed as a single-arm trial (i.e., with
no comparator arm), and the CLL, SLL, and FL indications were approved based on
response rate (overall response (OR), complete response (CR), and partial response
(PR)) and the duration of response (DOR). In the absence of an appropriate comparator
for BREYANZI, it is not possible to determine if the observed effect you represented is
attributable to BREYANZI or to other factor(s), such as the natural history of the disease.
Consequently, your promotional advertising and labeling that represents or suggests
BREYANZI is effective in providing PFS or OS is misleading.

We acknowledge that your presentations include, but are not limited to, the following
statements (in smaller less prominent font) next to the PFS and OS presentations (in
pertinent part; footnotes omitted):

   •   PFS data are not in the Prescribing Information and should be interpreted with
       caution
   •   PFS was a secondary endpoint in TRANSCEND CLL 004 and was not statistically
       tested in the setting of a single-arm trial. It is not possible to determine if the
       observed effect is attributable to BREYANZI or to the natural history of the disease
   •   The statistical significance of PFS is not known

2 We note that a post-marketing, multicenter, prospective, observational study to assess the long-term safety

and the risk of secondary malignancies occurring after treatment with lisocabtagene maraleucel is currently
ongoing; however, this study has not been completed (See:
https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06794268?term=AREA%5BBasicSearch%5D(Lisocabtagene%20marale
ucel)&rank=4)
Van De Vaarst and Pisciotta                                                   Page 4
Juno Therapeutics Inc., a Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
BREYANZI (lisocabtagene maraleucel) - BLA 125714/733, 735

   •   PFS was a secondary endpoint in TRANSCEND FL and was not statistically tested
       in the setting of a single-arm trial. It is not possible to determine if the observed
       effect is attributable to Breyanzi or to the natural history of the disease
   •   OS data are not in the Prescribing Information and should be interpreted with
       caution
   •   OS was a secondary endpoint in TRANSCEND CLL 004 and was not statistically
       tested in the setting of a single-arm trial. It is not possible to determine if the
       observed effect is attributable to Breyanzi or to the natural history of the disease
   •   The statistical significance of OS is not known

In further support of these representations, you cite a few references, including the
BREYANZI PI, Data on File with BMS, and abstracts presented at the American Society
of Hematology 2024 Annual Meeting.

However, these statements and references do not sufficiently mitigate the overall
misleading message conveyed by these materials.

Conclusion and Requested Action

For the reasons discussed above, your promotional materials misbrand BREYANZI within
the meaning of the FD&C Act and make its distribution violative. See 21 U.S.C. 321(n),
331(a), and 352(a), (n); 21 CFR 202.1(e)(5).

This letter notifies you of our concerns and provides you with an opportunity to address them.
APLB requests that you cease any violations of the FD&C Act. Within 15 working days of
receipt, please submit a written response to this letter addressing the concerns described,
listing all advertising and promotional labeling materials (including the
dissemination/publication date and Material ID Code) for BREYANZI that contain the same or
similar representations or suggestions, and explaining your plans for discontinuation of such.

If you believe that your product is not in violation of the FD&C Act, please include in your
submission to us your reasoning and any supporting information for our consideration
within 15 working days from the date of receipt of this letter.

The concerns discussed in this letter do not constitute an exhaustive list of potential
violations. It is your responsibility to ensure compliance with all applicable requirements of the
FD&C Act and its implementing regulations.

Please submit your response to your eCTD under the heading 1.15.1.6 and email a copy of
your response to CBERAPLB@fda.hhs.gov. We remind you that only written communications
are considered official responses. All correspondence should include a subject line that
clearly identifies the submission as a Response to Untitled Letter and refer to the BLA/STN
numbers.
Van De Vaarst and Pisciotta                                                 Page 5
Juno Therapeutics Inc., a Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
BREYANZI (lisocabtagene maraleucel) - BLA 125714/733, 735

Questions related to the submission of your response letter should be emailed to
CBERAPLB@fda.hhs.gov.


                                            Sincerely,



                                            Melissa Mendoza, J.D.
                                            Office Director
                                            Office of Compliance and Biologics Quality
                                            Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research
