                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES                                Public Health Service


                                                                                      Food and Drug Administration
                                                                                      Silver Spring, MD 20993

             Traci Dickson
             Senior Manager Regulatory Affairs, Advertising and Promotion
             BeOne Medicines USA, Inc.
             311 Pennington-Rocky Hill Rd, Bldg 51-Ste 1358
             Pennington, NJ 08534

            RE:         NDA 218785
                        BRUKINSA® (zanubrutinib) capsules, for oral use
                        BRUKINSA® (zanubrutinib) tablets, for oral use
                        MA 38

            Dear Traci Dickson:

            The Office of Prescription Drug Promotion (OPDP) of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
            (FDA) has reviewed the promotional communication, a direct-to-consumer (DTC) broadcast
            advertisement (0525-BRU-PRC-138) (TV ad) for BRUKINSA® (zanubrutinib) capsules and
            tablets, for oral use (Brukinsa) submitted by BeOne Medicines USA, Inc. (BeOne) under
            cover of Form FDA 2253. FDA has determined that the TV ad is false or misleading. Thus,
            the TV ad misbrands Brukinsa and makes the distribution of the drug in violation of the
            Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act).

            The TV ad begins with an older woman looking worried with multiple images of questions and
            concerns presented regarding appropriateness of her treatment plan, the impact of treatment
            side effects on daily living, frequency of side effects, and timing of overall improvement. The
            voiceover states, “There’s a lot to consider when finding the best CLL [chronic lymphocytic
            leukemia] treatment for you. Brukinsa brings clarity to your path ahead.” The next scenes
            depict the woman nervously preparing to walk a long, narrow bridge. The woman is then
            seen cautiously walking across the bridge and using the guardrails while benefit and safety
            claims are both audibly and visually presented. The final scenes of the TV ad present the
            woman smiling and overlooking a vast landscape from a high mountaintop with her friend as
            the voiceover states, “See your future clearly again,” and the SUPER states, “. . . CLEARLY
            BRUKINSA.”

            The totality of these claims and presentations misleadingly suggests that Brukinsa will allow
            patients to “see their futures clearly” by leaving treatment considerations or concerns aside
            and impacting their health-related quality of life, such as improving emotional functioning (i.e.,
            no longer being worried or nervous) and physical functioning (i.e., having greater ability to do
            activities of their choosing), when this has not been demonstrated. We note that the pivotal
            trials, SEQUOIA and ALPINE, evaluated patients with previously untreated CLL or small
            lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) and relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL, respectively, and
            measured patient-reported outcomes (PRO) by the European Organization for Research and
            Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life and the European Quality of Life Group 5-Dimension 5-




Reference ID: 5796567
            Traci Dickson                                                                    Page 2
            BeOne Medicines USA, Inc.
            NDA 218785/MA 38

            Level questionnaires. However, results from these PROs do not support the suggestion that
            patients on Brukinsa will “see their futures clearly” by improving their quality of life.
            Specifically, these data are subject to bias given the open-label trial design, were not
            analyzed based on a prespecified hypothesis, were not controlled for multiplicity, and thus,
            are considered descriptive in nature.

            The TV ad also includes claims about “finding the best CLL treatment” with the patient’s
            concerns visualized onscreen, such as “Cardiac complications concern me” and “Am I on the
            right treatment for me?” and it states Brukinsa is “the only BTKi [Bruton’s tyrosine kinase
            inhibitor] proven superior to both another BTKi and to chemotherapy.” This is then followed
            by comparisons of risk with the voiceover stating, “And Brukinsa had low rates of
            cardiovascular events including afib [atrial fibrillation],” and the SUPER stating,
            “Cardiovascular side effects ~2 years: 10% BRUKINSA vs 6% BR [bendamustine +
            rituximab] (grade 1-2); 21% BRUKINSA vs 30% ibrutinib (overall). Rate of atrial fibrillation (all
            grades): 3% BRUKINSA and BR (~2 years) 7% BRUKINSA vs 17% ibrutinib (42.5 months).”
            The TV ad then concludes with the presentation that patients “might do better with Brukinsa.”

            The totality of these claims and presentation misleadingly suggests that Brukinsa has a
            superior safety profile — particularly, a lower risk of cardiovascular events, including afib
            compared to another BTKi, specifically ibrutinib — and may be the “best” CLL treatment,
            when this has not been demonstrated. While the difference in the rates of atrial fibrillation (all
            grades) met the prespecified criteria for significance favoring Brukinsa over ibrutinib, the
            ALPINE trial was not sufficiently powered to demonstrate a clinically meaningful difference in
            the rates of atrial fibrillation or flutter between the study arms. Thus, the overall impression
            that Brukinsa has a lower risk of cardiovascular events, particularly atrial fibrillation relative to
            ibrutinib, is misleading.

            The major statement includes presentations where the verbatim complete transcript or
            verbatim key terms or phrases from the corresponding audio do not appear in dual modality,
            along with presentations where there is information in the SUPERs that is not from the
            corresponding audio. Therefore, the TV ad is misleading because it fails to present the major
            statement concurrently using both audio and text (dual modality).

            In addition, the major statement is presented when the TV ad’s emotional story arc reaches
            its peak. Specifically, the woman confidently crosses the bridge and high-fives her friend. The
            scenes then depict the woman smiling and laughing while browsing in a gift shop with the
            focus shifting between various souvenirs (mugs, key chains, and hats). She then heads
            outdoors to overlook the mountaintop with her friend and poses for a picture. Therefore, the
            TV ad is misleading because these compelling and attention-grabbing visuals during the
            presentation of the major statement interfere with comprehension of the major statement.

            Conclusion and Requested Action

            For the reasons described above, the TV ad misbrands Brukinsa and makes the distribution
            of the drug in violation of the FD&C Act.

            This letter notifies you of our concerns and provides you with an opportunity to address them.
            FDA requests that BeOne take immediate action to address any violations (including, for


Reference ID: 5796567
            Traci Dickson                                                                Page 3
            BeOne Medicines USA, Inc.
            NDA 218785/MA 38

            example, ceasing and desisting promotional communications that are misleading as
            described above).

            Please submit a written response to this letter within 15 working days from the date of receipt,
            addressing the concerns described in this letter, listing all promotional communications (with
            the 2253 submission date) for Brukinsa that contain representations like those described
            above, and explaining your plan for the discontinuation of such communications, or for
            ceasing distribution of Brukinsa.

            If you believe that your products are not in violation of the FD&C Act, please include in your
            submission to us your reasoning and any supporting information for our consideration within
            15 working days from the date of receipt of this letter.

            The concerns discussed in this letter do not necessarily constitute an exhaustive list of
            potential violations. It is your responsibility to ensure compliance with each applicable
            requirement of the FD&C Act and FDA implementing regulations.

            Please direct your response to the undersigned at the Food and Drug Administration,
            Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Office of Prescription Drug Promotion, 5901-
            B Ammendale Road, Beltsville, Maryland 20705-1266. A courtesy copy can be sent by
            facsimile to (301) 847-8444. Please refer to MA 38 in addition to the NDA number in all future
            correspondence relating to this particular matter. All correspondence should include a subject
            line that clearly identifies the submission as a Response to Untitled Letter. You are
            encouraged, but not required, to submit your response in eCTD format. All correspondence
            submitted in response to this letter should be placed under eCTD Heading 1.15.1.6.
            Additionally, the response submission should be coded as an Amendment to eCTD
            Sequence 5038 under NDA 218785. Questions related to the submission of your response
            letter should be emailed to CDER-OPDP-RPM@fda.hhs.gov.


                                                             Sincerely,

                                                             {See appended electronic signature page}

                                                             Valerie Guerrier, PharmD
                                                             Regulatory Review Officer
                                                             Division of Advertising & Promotion Review 2
                                                             Office of Prescription Drug Promotion


                                                             {See appended electronic signature page}

                                                             Jina Kwak, PharmD, RAC
                                                             Team Leader
                                                             Division of Advertising & Promotion Review 2
                                                             Office of Prescription Drug Promotion




Reference ID: 5796567
                                                                                                    Signature Page 1 of 1

          --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
          electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
          electronic signatures for this electronic record.
          --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          /s/
          ------------------------------------------------------------

          VALERIE GUERRIER
          05/12/2026 10:59:38 AM

          JINA KWAK
          05/12/2026 11:02:09 AM




Reference ID: 5796567
