                  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES                                  Public Health Service



                                                                                         Food and Drug Administration
                                                                                         Silver Spring, MD 20993

             Dr. Brenda Pillari
             Head of Regulatory Affairs, North America
             Viatris Specialty LLC
             3711 Collins Ferry Road
             Morgantown, WV 26505

            RE:         NDA 201688
                        TOBI® PODHALER® (tobramycin inhalation powder), for oral inhalation use
                        MA 931

            Dear Dr. Brenda Pillari:

            The Office of Prescription Drug Promotion (OPDP) of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
            (FDA) has reviewed the promotional communication, a direct-to-consumer (DTC) video, titled
                                                 (b) (6)
            “TOBI-2022-0131_V2 US_Misty                  Video 2 Jax's Experience with the TOBI
            PODHALER” (TOBI-2022-0131) (video) for TOBI® PODHALER® (tobramycin inhalation
            powder), for oral inhalation use (TOBI Podhaler) submitted by Viatris Specialty LLC (Viatris)
            under cover of Form FDA 2253. FDA has determined that the video is false or misleading.
            Thus, the video misbrands TOBI Podhaler and makes the distribution of the drug in violation
            of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act).

            The video includes statements such as the following (underlined emphasis added; in
            pertinent part):

                        Jax (patient)

                        VOICEOVER (VO): “The one thing I love about the TOBI Podhaler is when I am
                        running late, I can do it on the way to school in the car.”

                        Misty (parent)

                        VO: “My favorite things about the TOBI Podhaler are how portable it is, how quick it is
                        to use, and how you can use it anywhere.”

                        VO: “We have used it on vacation, in the car, and while running out of the door on the
                        way to school.”

            These claims create the misleading impression that patients can perform the administration
            process for TOBI Podhaler anywhere, such as “in the car” or “while running out of the door
            on the way to school,” without concern. However, we note that the FDA-approved
            Instructions for Use (IFU) for TOBI Podhaler includes several detailed steps requiring
            adequate lighting and stable conditions to properly complete the preparation and




Reference ID: 5833131
            Dr. Brenda Pillari                                                              Page 2
            Viatris Specialty LLC
            NDA 201688/MA 931

            administration of the product. For example, the IFU states (bolded emphasis original;
            underlined emphasis added; in pertinent part):

                 •      “Wash and dry your hands.”
                 •      “[H]old the base of the storage case and unscrew the lid...Set the lid aside.”
                 •      “Hold the body of the Podhaler device and unscrew the mouthpiece...Set the
                        mouthpiece aside on a clean, dry surface.”
                 •      “Hold the used capsule up to the light and look through it. It should be empty with only
                        a fine coating of powder remaining on the inside surface of the capsule...If the capsule
                        is not empty, see “What to do with a capsule that has not been emptied””
                 •      “Repeat Step 5 to Step 17 for 3 more times until your full dose (4 capsules) has been
                        taken.”

            In addition, with respect to the storage and handling of TOBI Podhaler, the IFU states “Only
            peel back the foil from 1 capsule at a time and remove the capsule just before you are going
            to use it in the device because the blister protects the capsule from moisture,” and the “How
            should I store TOBI Podhaler?” section of the IFU instructs patients to “Keep the TOBI
            Podhaler capsules and Podhaler device in a dry place.” (bolded emphasis original; in
            pertinent part). The misleading impression described above is concerning because actions
            that result in incomplete emptying of the capsule(s), or storage and handling conditions that
            expose the TOBI Podhaler device and/or capsules to moisture may reduce the amount of
            drug and result in a suboptimal dose of TOBI Podhaler being administered to the patient. We
            acknowledge that the video includes some information pertaining to the use of the TOBI
            Podhaler; however, this does not mitigate the misleading impression.

            Conclusion and Requested Action

            For the reasons described above, the video misbrands TOBI Podhaler and makes the
            distribution of the drug in violation of the FD&C Act.

            This letter notifies you of our concerns and provides you with an opportunity to address them.
            FDA requests that Viatris take immediate action to address any violations (including, for
            example, ceasing and desisting promotional communications that are misleading as
            described above).

            Please submit a written response to this letter within 15 working days from the date of receipt,
            addressing the concerns described in this letter, listing all promotional communications (with
            the 2253 submission date) for TOBI Podhaler that contain representations like those
            described above, and explaining your plan for the discontinuation of such communications, or
            for ceasing distribution of TOBI Podhaler.

            If you believe that your products are not in violation of the FD&C Act, please include in your
            submission to us your reasoning and any supporting information for our consideration within
            15 working days from the date of receipt of this letter.

            The concerns discussed in this letter do not necessarily constitute an exhaustive list of
            potential violations. It is your responsibility to ensure compliance with each applicable
            requirement of the FD&C Act and FDA implementing regulations.


Reference ID: 5833131
            Dr. Brenda Pillari                                                        Page 3
            Viatris Specialty LLC
            NDA 201688/MA 931


            Please direct your response to the undersigned at the Food and Drug Administration,
            Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Office of Prescription Drug Promotion, 5901-
            B Ammendale Road, Beltsville, Maryland 20705-1266. A courtesy copy can be sent by
            facsimile to (301) 847-8444. Please refer to MA 931 in addition to the NDA number in all
            future correspondence relating to this particular matter. All correspondence should include a
            subject line that clearly identifies the submission as a Response to Untitled Letter. You are
            encouraged, but not required, to submit your response in eCTD format. All correspondence
            submitted in response to this letter should be placed under eCTD Heading 1.15.1.6.
            Additionally, the response submission should be coded as an Amendment to eCTD
            Sequence 0495 under NDA 201688. Questions related to the submission of your response
            letter should be emailed to CDER-OPDP-RPM@fda.hhs.gov.



                                                           Sincerely,

                                                           {See appended electronic signature page}

                                                           Qumerunnisa Syed, PharmD
                                                           Regulatory Review Officer
                                                           Division of Advertising & Promotion Review 1
                                                           Office of Prescription Drug Promotion


                                                           {See appended electronic signature page}

                                                           Samuel Skariah, PharmD, RAC
                                                           Team Leader
                                                           Division of Advertising & Promotion Review 1
                                                           Office of Prescription Drug Promotion




Reference ID: 5833131
                                                                                                    Signature Page 1 of 1

          --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
          electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
          electronic signatures for this electronic record.
          --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          /s/
          ------------------------------------------------------------

          QUMERUNNISA B SYED
          07/13/2026 02:26:04 PM

          SAMUEL M SKARIAH
          07/13/2026 02:28:19 PM




Reference ID: 5833131
