                        COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
                                     Three Lafayette Centre
                          1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, DC 20581
                                          www.cftc.gov

                                                                                         RECEIVED CFTC

    Office of
   Proceedings

                                                                                         Office of Proceedings
                                                                                          Proceedings Clerk
                                                *                                      10:28 am, Sep 18 2026
 Nathan Ruark,                                  *
                                                *
         Complainant,                           *
                                                *
         v.                                     *     CFTC Docket No. 26-R032
                                                *     Served electronically
 AMP Global Clearing LLC                        *
                                                *
         Respondent.                            *
                                                *


                             INITIAL DECISION ON DEFAULT

        Complainant Nathan Ruark alleges in this formal decisional proceeding that

Respondent AMP Global Clearing LLC failed to execute his orders and liquidate his

positions properly, in violation of the Commodity Exchange Act and Commission

Rules, causing him losses in excess of $150,000. See Complaint, Amended

Complaint [Tabs 001, 004] and exhibits thereto. 1 AMP Global Clearing agrees

Ruark had an AMP Global Clearing futures account and engaged in futures trading

that incurred losses but denies liability for those losses.




1 Tab numbers cited in brackets refer to the tab numbers listed on the docket sheet reflecting

documents filed in this case. This docket sheet is being provided to the parties by Notice of Record of
Proceedings.
       During discovery, Ruark neither served discovery requests nor responded to

AMP Global Clearing’s requests for admission by the applicable deadlines. 2 Ruark

then failed to respond to this Office’s e-mail directing the parties to produce to this

Office all previously issued discovery requests and responses by July 17, or in the

alternative to confirm by email that none were made by July 17. [Tab 15.] On July

21, 2026, given Ruark’s ongoing failure to participate in the action, including in

discovery, I issued an Order directing Ruark to show cause no later than August 7,

2026, why a default order against him should not be entered, and setting a deadline

for Ruark to oppose AMP Global Clearing’s motion for summary disposition no later

than August 7, 2026. [Tab 17.] Ruark did not timely respond to this Order, did not

timely file papers opposing the motion for summary disposition, and did not seek an

extension as to either.

       On August 10, 2026, AMP Global Clearing filed a notice of Ruark’s failure to

comply with the July 21 Order and requested a ruling among other things on the

issue of default. [Tab 19.] Ruark did not reply to that filing.

       Parties to a reparations proceeding are required to participate in the

proceeding. Commission Rules 12.35 and 12.304 provide in part that I am

responsible for the orderly conduct of the proceeding and may issue default orders

for failure to participate in the proceeding or to comply with Part 12 rules and

discovery orders. Ruark has failed to participate in this proceeding, even after the




2 Commission Rule 12.33(b) provides that the matters in requests for admission are admitted unless

the party timely files and serves answers or objections to the requests.

                                                   2
