                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                               BEFORE THE
            BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.

                    GEORGIA DEPARTMENT OF BANKING AND FINANCE
                                ATLANTA, GEORGIA


 In the Matter of                                      Docket No.      26-019-B-HC
 COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.                            Order to Cease and Desist Issued
 LaGrange, Georgia                                     Upon Consent Pursuant to the
                                                       Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as
                                                       Amended



       WHEREAS, Community Bankshares, Inc., LaGrange, Georgia (“Bankshares”), is a

registered bank holding company that owns and controls Community Bank & Trust – West

Georgia (the “Bank,” and collectively with Bankshares, the “Firm”), LaGrange, Georgia, a state-

chartered nonmember bank regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)

and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance (the “Department”);

       WHEREAS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Board of

Governors”) is the appropriate federal supervisor of Bankshares and the Department is the

appropriate state supervisor of Bankshares;

       WHEREAS, Bankshares had adopted a growth strategy focused on purchasing and

originating United States Department of Agriculture and Small Business Administration loans

through certain nonbank subsidiaries requiring significant financial and managerial resources

and support from Bankshares;



                                                1
        WHEREAS, the most recent inspection of Bankshares, dated January 9, 2026, conducted

by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (the “Reserve Bank,” and collectively with the

Department, the “Supervisors”) identified deficiencies with respect to the operations of

Bankshares, including with respect to pursuit of its growth strategy, related to board oversight,

capital, and compliance with the rules related to affiliate transactions;

        WHEREAS, Bankshares, the Department, and the Board of Governors have the common

goal that Bankshares operate in a safe and sound manner and comply with all applicable federal

and state laws, rules, and regulations;

        WHEREAS, Bankshares, the Department, and the Board of Governors have mutually

agreed to enter into this consent Cease and Desist Order (the “Order”); and

        WHEREAS, the board of directors of Bankshares has authorized the undersigned to enter

into this Order and consent to compliance with each and every provision of this Order by

Bankshares and to waive any and all rights that Bankshares may have pursuant to section 8 of the

Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDI Act”) (12 U.S.C. § 1818), including, but

not limited to: (i) the issuance of a notice of charges on any matters set forth in this Order; (ii) a

hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on any matters set forth in this Order; (iii) judicial

review of this Order; and (iv) challenge or contest, in any manner, the basis, issuance, validity,

terms, effectiveness or enforceability of the Order or any provision hereof.

        NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby ordered that, before the filing of any notices, or taking

of any testimony or adjudication of or finding on any issues of fact or law herein, and solely for

the purpose of settling this matter without a formal proceeding being filed and without the

                                                   2
necessity for protracted or extended hearings or testimony, pursuant to section 8(b)(1) and (3) of

the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1818(b)(1) and 1818(b)(3)), Bankshares shall cease and desist and take

affirmative action as follows:

Source of Strength

        1.      The board of directors of Bankshares shall take appropriate steps to fully utilize

Bankshares’ financial and managerial resources, pursuant to section 38A of the FDI Act

(12 U.S.C. § 1831o-1) and section 225.4(a) of Regulation Y of the Board of Governors

(12 C.F.R. § 225.4(a)), to serve as a source of strength to the Bank, including, but not limited to,

taking steps to ensure that the Bank complies with any supervisory action taken by the Bank’s

federal or state regulator.

Board Oversight

        2.      Within 30 days of this Order, Bankshares’ board of directors shall submit a

written plan to the Supervisors to strengthen board oversight of the management and operations

of the Firm. The plan shall include the following three items:

                (a)     actions that the Bankshares’ board of directors will take to improve

Bankshares’ condition and maintain effective control over, and supervision of, the Firm’s major

operations and activities, including but not limited to, capital, earnings, liquidity, and risk

management;

                (b)     an assessment of the present and future senior staffing needs of the Firm

that will ensure that the Firm’s management has sufficiently qualified personnel; and




                                                   3
               (c)     measures to set forth the responsibility of the Bankshares’ board of

directors to establish appropriate risk tolerance guidelines and risk limits related to the Firm’s

business strategy.

Capital Plan

       3.      Within 30 days of this Order, Bankshares shall submit to the Supervisors an

acceptable written plan to maintain sufficient capital at Bankshares on a consolidated basis to

support its operations and serve as a financial source of strength to the Bank. The plan shall

include the following five items:

               (a)     an assessment of the current and anticipated uses and sources of capital;

               (b)     an analysis of the adequacy of the Bank’s capital, taking into account the

volume of classified credits, the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses, current and

projected asset growth, projected earnings, and its risk profile;

               (c)     an action plan to raise additional capital or take other steps to improve the

financial condition of the Firm and the Bank;

               (d)     supervisory requests for additional capital at the Bank or the requirements

of any supervisory action imposed on the Bank by its federal regulator; and

               (e)     the requirements of section 225.4(a) of Regulation Y of the Board of

Governors (12 C.F.R. § 225.4(a)) that Bankshares serve as a source of strength to the Bank.

       4.      Bankshares shall notify the Supervisors, in writing, no more than 30 days after the

end of any quarter in which any of Bankshares’ capital ratios fall below the approved plan’s


                                                  4
minimum ratios. Together with the notification, Bankshares shall submit an acceptable written

plan that details the steps that Bankshares will take to increase Bankshares’ capital ratios to or

above the approved plan’s minimums.

Affiliate Transactions

       5.      (a)     Bankshares shall take all necessary action to ensure that the Bank

complies with sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. §§ 371c and 371c-1)

and Regulation W of the Board of Governors (12 C.F.R. Part 223) in all transactions between the

Bank and its affiliates, including, but not limited to, Bankshares and its nonbank subsidiaries.

               (b)     Bankshares shall not cause the Bank to violate any provision of sections

23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act or Regulation W of the Board of Governors.

               (c)     Within 30 days of this Order, Bankshares shall submit to the Supervisors

an acceptable written policy regarding transactions between Bankshares, including its nonbank

subsidiaries, and the Bank, addressing all affiliate and related intercompany service or

management agreements, that includes:

                       (i)     measures to ensure that intercompany transactions that either

directly or indirectly compensate Bankshares or its non-bank subsidiaries are conducted on

an arms-length basis; and

                       (ii)    procedures to ensure that fees paid directly or indirectly to

Bankshares are supported by a fair market value analysis of fees for comparable transactions.




                                                  5
Capital Conservation

       6.      (a)     Effective immediately, Bankshares shall not, directly or indirectly, declare

or pay dividends, engage in share repurchases, or make any other capital distribution in respect

of common shares, preferred shares, or other capital instruments, including, without limitation,

any interest payments due on subordinated debentures, without the prior written approval of the

Supervisors and the Director of Supervision and Regulation of the Board of Governors. All

requests for prior approval shall be received in writing at least 30 days prior to the earlier of

proposed declaration, payment, or distribution date, or required notice of deferral, and shall

contain, at a minimum, current and projected information, as appropriate, on Bankshares’ capital,

earnings, and cash flow; the Bank’s asset quality, earnings, and allowance for loan and lease

losses; and identification of the source(s) of funding for the proposed payment or distribution.

               (b)     Effectively immediately, Bankshares shall not, directly or indirectly, incur,

increase, prepay or guarantee any debt without the prior written approval of the Supervisors. All

requests for prior approval shall be received at least 30 days prior to the proposed transaction

date and contain, but not be limited to, a statement regarding the purpose of the debt, the terms of

the debt, and the planned source(s) for debt repayment, and an analysis of the cash flow

resources available to meet such debt repayment.

Compliance with Laws and Regulations

       7.      (a)     In appointing any new director or senior executive officer, or changing the

responsibilities of any senior executive officer so that the officer would assume a different senior

executive officer position, Bankshares shall comply with the notice provisions of section 32 of


                                                  6
the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1831i) and Subpart H of Regulation Y of the Board of Governors

(12 C.F.R. §§ 225.71 et seq.).

               (b)     Bankshares shall comply with the restrictions on indemnification and

severance payments of section 18(k) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1828(k)) and Part 359 of the

FDIC’s regulations (12 C.F.R. § 359).

Progress Reports

       8.      Within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter following the date of this

Order, the board of directors of Bankshares shall submit to the Supervisors written progress

reports detailing the form and manner of all actions taken to secure compliance with this Order

and the results thereof.

Approval and Implementation of Plans and Programs

       9.      (a)     Bankshares shall submit the written plans, programs, policies, and

procedures that are acceptable to the Supervisors as set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5(c) of this

Order. Each plan, program, policy, and procedure shall contain a timeline for full

implementation of the plan, program, policy, or procedure with specific deadlines for

completion of each component of the plan, program, policy, or procedure.

               (b)     Within 10 days of approval by the Supervisors, Bankshares shall adopt

the approved plans, programs, policies, and procedures. Upon adoption, Bankshares shall

promptly implement the approved plans, programs, policies, and procedures, and thereafter

fully comply with them.


                                                 7
                (c)    During the term of this Order, the approved plans, programs, policies,

and procedures shall not be amended or rescinded without the prior written approval of the

Supervisors.

Notices

       10.      All communications regarding this Order shall be sent to:

                (a)    Jason Gonzalez
                       Deputy Associate General Counsel
                       Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
                       20th & C Street, N.W.
                       Washington, D.C. 20551

                (b)    Allen Stanley
                       Vice President
                       Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
                       9100 N.W. 36th Street
                       Miami, Florida 33178

                (c)    Oscar B. Fears III
                       Commissioner
                       Department of Banking and Finance
                       2990 Brandywine Road
                       Suite 200
                       Atlanta, Georgia 30341

                (d)    Jeremy F. Gilpin
                       Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
                       Community Bankshares, Inc.
                       201 Broad Street
                       LaGrange, Georgia 30240
Miscellaneous
       11.      Notwithstanding any provision of this Order to the contrary, the Supervisors may,

in its discretion, grant written extensions of time to Bankshares to comply with this Order.

Bankshares must submit a written request to the Supervisors for any extension of time.


                                                 8
       12.     The provisions of this Order shall be binding upon Bankshares and each of its

institution-affiliated parties, as defined in sections 3(u) and 8(b)(4) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C.

§§ 1813(u) and 1818(b)(4)), in their capacities as such, and their successors and assigns.

       13.     Each provision of this Order shall remain effective and enforceable until stayed,

modified, terminated, or suspended in writing by the Supervisors.

       14.     The provisions of this Order shall not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent the Board

of Governors, the Reserve Bank, the Department, or any other federal or state agency from

taking any other action affecting Bankshares, any subsidiary thereof, or any of their current or

former institution-affiliated parties and their successors and assigns.

       15.     Nothing in this Order, express or implied, shall give to any person or entity,

other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any legal or equitable right, remedy

or claim under this Order.

               By Order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System effective

this 14th day of April, 2026.



COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.                            BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE
                                                      FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM



By: /s/ Jeremy F. Gilpin                              By: /s/ Michele Taylor Fennell
        Jeremy F. Gilpin                                      Michele Taylor Fennell
        Chairman                                              Associate Secretary of the Board




                                                  9
     GEORGIA DEPARTMENT OF BANKING
     AND FINANCE



     By: /s/ Oscar B. Fears III
             Oscar B. Fears III
             Commissioner




10
