                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                               BEFORE THE
            BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.

      ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
                           SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS



Written Agreement by and among

IUKA BANCSHARES, INC.                                    Docket Nos. 26-040-WA/RB-HC
Salem, Illinois                                                      26-040-WA/RB-SM
                                                                     IDFPR 2026-DB SUP-03
THE IUKA STATE BANK
Salem, Illinois

ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL
AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION
Springfield, Illinois

and

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF
ST. LOUIS
St. Louis, Missouri




       WHEREAS, Iuka Bancshares, Inc. (“Bancshares”), Salem, Illinois, a registered bank

holding company, owns and controls The Iuka State Bank (the “Bank”), Salem, Illinois, a state-

chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System;

       WHEREAS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Board of

Governors”) is the appropriate federal supervisor of Bancshares and the Bank;

       WHEREAS, the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (the

“IDFPR”) is the appropriate state supervisor for the Bank;
       WHEREAS, the most recent examination of the Bank, dated May 27, 2026 (the “Report of

Examination”), conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (the “Reserve Bank,”

together with the IDFPR, the “Supervisors”) identified certain deficiencies at the Bank related to

internal controls, credit risk management, lending and credit administration, capital, and liquidity

and funds management;

       WHEREAS, the Report of Examination also identified deficiencies in the Bank’s risk

management and compliance with federal laws, rules, and regulations relating to anti-money

laundering (“AML”) compliance, including the Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) (31 U.S.C. § 5311 et

seq.) and the rules and regulations issued thereunder by the U.S. Department of the Treasury

(31 C.F.R. Chapter X) (collectively, the “BSA/AML Requirements”) at the Bank;

       WHEREAS, Bancshares, the Bank, and the Supervisors have the common goal that

Bancshares and the Bank operate in a safe and sound manner and in compliance with all

applicable federal and state laws, rules, and regulations;

       WHEREAS, Bancshares and the Bank and the Supervisors have mutually agreed to enter

into this Written Agreement (the “Agreement”); and

       WHEREAS, the undersigned are authorized to enter into this Agreement on behalf of

Bancshares and the Bank, respectively, and consent to compliance with each and every provision

of this Agreement by Bancshares and the Bank.

       NOW, THEREFORE, Bancshares, the Bank, the IDFPR, and the Reserve Bank agree as

follows:

Source of Strength

       1.      The board of directors of Bancshares shall take appropriate steps to fully utilize

Bancshares’ financial and managerial resources, pursuant to section 38A of the Federal Deposit




                                                 2
Insurance Act, as amended, (the “FDI Act”) (12 U.S.C. § 1831o-1) and section 225.4(a) of

Regulation Y of the Board of Governors (12 C.F.R. § 225.4(a)), to serve as a source of financial

and managerial strength to the Bank, including, but not limited to, demonstrating the ability to

provide financial assistance to the Bank as required by 12 U.S.C. § 1831o-1(a) and (f) by, for

example, raising additional capital or taking other steps to improve the financial condition of the

Bank in the event of the financial distress of the Bank, and taking steps to ensure that the Bank

complies with this Agreement and any supervisory action taken by the Bank’s federal or state

regulators.

Board Oversight

       2.      Within 60 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the board of directors of

the Bank shall submit a written plan to the Supervisors to strengthen board oversight of the

management and operations of the Bank. The plan shall include the following four items:

               (a)     actions the Bank’s board of directors will take to improve the Bank’s

condition and maintain effective control over, and oversight of, the Bank’s major operations and

activities, including but not limited to, capital, earnings, liquidity and funds management,

lending, and credit risk management;

               (b)     measures for the Bank’s board of directors to establish appropriate risk

tolerance guidelines and risk limits, and monitor management’s adherence thereto, including any

exceptions;

               (c)     measures to ensure the Bank’s board of directors monitors management’s

adherence to approved policies and procedures, applicable laws and regulations, and any

exceptions to approved policies and procedures; and

               (d)     steps to improve the quality, comprehensiveness, and granularity of the




                                                 3
information and reports provided to the board of directors, including with respect to the Bank’s

capital, earnings, liquidity, lending, and credit risk management.

Credit Risk Management

       3.      Within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Bank shall submit a

written plan acceptable to the Supervisors to strengthen credit risk management practices. The

plan shall include the following two items:

               (a)     policies, procedures, and strategies to identify, limit, and manage

concentrations of credit of borrowers, relationships, and industries; and

               (b)     improvements to the Bank’s management information systems to ensure

the board of directors and senior management obtain timely and accurate credit-related

information, including identification of nonaccruals, concentrations, charge-offs, and decisions

related to extensions or deferrals.

Lending and Credit Risk Administration

       4.      Within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Bank shall submit

policies and procedures acceptable to the Supervisors to improve its lending and credit risk

management. The policies and procedures shall include the following seven items:

               (a)     measures to ensure employees who conduct the lending and underwriting

functions have the necessary experience, training, and independence to perform their duties;

               (b)     underwriting standards that require documented analyses of:

                        (i)    the borrower’s repayment sources, financial statements, global

cash flow, and overall debt service ability; and

                        (ii)   the value of any collateral;

               (c)     steps for management and administration of collateral, including:




                                                   4
                       (i)     proper collateral perfection documentation; and

                       (ii)    procedures to ensure appraisals conform to accepted appraisal

standards, as defined in the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice, and comply

with the requirements of Subpart G of Regulation Y of the Board of Governors (12 C.F.R. § 225,

Subpart G) made applicable to state member banks by section 208.50 of Regulation H of the

Board of Governors (12 C.F.R. § 208.50), and the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation

Guidelines, dated December 2, 2010 (SR 10-16);

               (d)     procedures to ensure compliance with loan documentation and collateral

requirements to minimize exceptions, including establishment of an exception tracking system;

               (e)     standards to require periodic updating of borrowers’ financial information

and credit analysis, and collateral evaluations;

               (f)     policies, procedures, and standards for the timely movement of loans to

non-accrual status, and the monitoring and reporting of loans on non-accrual status that are

consistent with applicable regulatory and accounting guidance; and

               (g)     enhanced procedures, reporting, and monitoring systems to ensure

deteriorating credits are promptly identified, properly risk rated, and accurately and timely

placed on the watch list.

Loan Grading and Loan Review

       5.      Within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Bank shall submit a

written program for the effective, ongoing grading of the Bank’s loan portfolio by qualified staff

that is independent of the Bank’s lending function and is acceptable to the Supervisors. The

program shall provide for policies, procedures, and processes for the timely and ongoing grading

of loans. The program shall include the following four items:




                                                   5
               (a)        standards and criteria for assessing the credit quality of loans, including a

discussion of the factors used to assign appropriate risk grades to loans;

               (b)        procedures to re-evaluate the grading of loans in the event of material

changes in the borrower’s performance or the value of the collateral;

               (c)        procedures to evaluate the grading of all loans that are adversely classified

at least quarterly; and

               (d)        controls to ensure staff’s consistent application and adherence to the loan

grading system.

       6.      Within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Bank shall submit a

written program acceptable to the Supervisors for the effective, ongoing review of the Bank’s

loan portfolio by qualified staff that is independent of the Bank’s lending function and is

acceptable to the Supervisors. The program shall provide policies and procedures for the timely

identification and categorization of problem loans, and processes to detect weaknesses in the

Bank’s loan approval, monitoring, and grading process. The program shall include the following

four items:

               (a)        the scope, depth, and frequency of the independent loan review;

               (b)        clearly defined responsibilities for the loan review function;

               (c)        an objective and timely assessment of the overall quality of the loan

portfolio and the accuracy of assigned loan grades; and

               (d)        regular written reports documenting the findings of the loan review.

       7.      The board of directors, or a committee thereof, shall evaluate the loan review

report(s) and take appropriate steps to ensure management takes prompt action to address

findings noted in the report(s).




                                                    6
Asset Improvement

       8.      The Bank shall not, directly or indirectly, extend, renew, or restructure any credit

to or for the benefit of any borrower, including any related interest of the borrower, whose loans

or other extensions of credit are criticized in the Report of Examination, or in any subsequent

report of examination, without the prior approval of a majority of the full board of directors or a

designated committee thereof. The board of directors or its designated committee shall

document in writing the reasons for the extension of credit, renewal, or restructuring, specifically

certifying that: (i) the Bank’s risk management policies and practices for loan workout activity

are acceptable; (ii) the extension of credit is necessary to improve and protect the Bank’s interest

in the ultimate collection of the credit already granted and maximize its potential for collection;

(iii) the extension of credit reflects prudent underwriting based on reasonable repayment terms

and is adequately secured; and all necessary loan documentation has been properly and

accurately prepared and filed; (iv) the Bank has performed a comprehensive credit analysis

indicating the borrower has the willingness and ability to repay the debt as supported by an

adequate workout plan, as necessary; and (v) the board of directors or its designated committee

reasonably believes the extension of credit will not impair the Bank’s interest in obtaining

repayment of the already outstanding credit and the extension of credit or renewal will be repaid

according to its terms. The written certification shall be made a part of the minutes of the

meetings of the board of directors or its designated committee, as appropriate, and a copy of the

signed certification, together with the credit analysis and related information that was used in the

determination, shall be retained by the Bank in the borrower’s credit file for subsequent

supervisory review. For purposes of this Agreement, the term “related interest” is defined as set

forth in section 215.2(n) of Regulation O of the Board of Governors (12 C.F.R. § 215.2(n)).




                                                 7
         9.     (a)     Within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Bank shall

submit a written plan acceptable to the Supervisors designed to improve the Bank’s position

through repayment, amortization, liquidation, additional collateral, or other means on each loan,

relationship, or other asset in excess of $200,000, including other real estate owned (“OREO”),

that is past due as to principal or interest more than 90 days as of the effective date of this

Agreement, is on the Bank’s problem loan list, or was criticized in the Report of Examination.

                (b)     Within 30 days of the date that any additional loan, relationship, or other

asset in excess of $200,000, becomes past due as to principal or interest for more than 90 days, is

on the Bank’s problem loan list, or is criticized in any subsequent report of examination of the

Bank, the Bank shall submit to the Supervisors an acceptable written plan to improve the Bank’s

position on such loan, relationship, or asset.

                (c)     Within 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter thereafter, the Bank

shall submit a written progress report to the Supervisors to update each asset improvement plan,

which shall include, at a minimum, the carrying value of the loan or other asset and changes in

the nature and value of supporting collateral, along with a copy of the Bank’s current problem

loan list, a list of all loan renewals and extensions without full collection of interest in the last

quarter, and past due/non-accrual report. The board of directors shall review the progress reports

before submission to the Supervisors and shall document the review in the minutes of the board

of directors’ meetings.

Allowance for Credit Losses

        10.     (a)     Within 30 days from the receipt of any report of examination, the Bank

shall charge off all assets classified as “loss” unless otherwise approved in writing by the

Supervisors.




                                                   8
                (b)    Within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Bank shall

review and revise its allowance for credit losses (“ACL”) methodology consistent with relevant

supervisory guidance, including the Interagency Policy Statement on Allowances for Credit

Losses, dated May 8, 2020 (SR 20-12) and the findings and recommendations regarding the

ACL, and submit a description of the revised methodology to the Supervisors. The revised ACL

methodology shall be designed to maintain an adequate ACL and shall, at a minimum, include

the reliability of the Bank’s loan grading system, the volume of criticized loans, concentrations

of credit, the current level of past due and nonperforming loans, past loan loss experience,

evaluation of probable losses in the Bank’s loan portfolio, including adversely classified loans,

and the impact of market conditions on loan and collateral valuations and collectability.

                (c)    Within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Bank shall

submit to the Supervisors a written program for the maintenance of an adequate ACL. The

program shall, at a minimum, include policies and procedures to ensure adherence to the ACL

methodology and provide for periodic reviews and updates to the ACL methodology. The

program also shall provide for a review of the ACL by the board of directors on at least a

quarterly calendar basis. Any deficiency found in the ACL shall be remedied in the quarter it is

discovered, prior to the filing of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income. The board of

directors shall maintain written documentation of its review, including the factors considered and

conclusions reached by the Bank in determining the adequacy of the ACL. During the term of

this Agreement, the Bank shall submit to the Supervisors, within 45 days after the end of each

calendar quarter, a written report regarding the board of directors’ quarterly review of the ACL

and a description of any changes to the methodology used in determining the amount of the ACL

for that quarter.




                                                 9
Capital Plan

        11.     Within 60 days of the effective date of this Agreement, Bancshares and the Bank

shall jointly submit a written plan acceptable to the Supervisors to maintain sufficient capital.

The plan shall include the following four items:

                (a)     Bancshares and the Bank’s current and future capital requirements,

including compliance with the applicable requirements of Regulation Q of the Board of

Governors, Capital Adequacy of Board-Regulated Entities (12 C.F.R. Part 217);

                (b)     an analysis of the adequacy of the Bank’s capital, taking into account the

volume of classified assets, concentrations of credit, the adequacy of the ACL, current and

projected asset growth, projected earnings, risk profile, and anticipated and contingency funding

needs; and

                (c)     an action plan to raise additional capital or take other steps to improve the

financial condition of the Bank, which may include contributing assets to the Bank up to the

amount of Bancshares’ capital; and

                (d)     a capital contingency plan that fully addresses both Bancshares and the

Bank’s short-term and long-term capital needs.

        12.     (a)     Bancshares and the Bank shall notify the Supervisors, in writing, no more

than 30 days after the end of any calendar quarter in which any of the Bank’s capital ratios (total

risk-based, Tier 1 risk-based, common equity Tier 1, or leverage) fall below the approved capital

plan’s minimum ratios. Together with the notification, the Bank shall submit a written plan

acceptable to the Supervisors that details the steps it will take to increase its capital ratios to or

above the approved capital plan’s minimums.

                (b)     During the term of this Agreement, the Bank shall not enter into any




                                                   10
agreement to sell or purchase any loan or other asset that, in the aggregate, would exceed 5

percent of the Bank’s total assets at the end of the prior quarter without the prior written approval

of the Supervisors.

               (c)     All requests for prior written approval shall be received at least 30 days

prior to the proposed sale or purchase. All requests shall contain, at a minimum, a description of

the terms of the proposed sale or purchase, the identity of the proposed purchaser or seller;

current and projected information on the Bank’s capital, asset quality, earnings, and ACL needs,

and the identification of the sources of funds for any proposed purchase or sale.

Liquidity and Funds Management

       13.     Within 60 days of this Agreement, the Bank shall submit a written contingency

funding plan acceptable to the Supervisors that, at a minimum, takes steps to diversify sources of

contingency funding, identifies available sources of liquidity, and includes adverse scenario

planning.

BSA/AML Compliance Program

       14.     Within 60 days of this Agreement, the Bank shall submit a written plan acceptable

to the Supervisors to improve the Bank’s BSA/AML compliance program in accordance with the

BSA/AML Requirements. The plan shall include the following two enhancements to the

BSA/AML compliance program:

               (a)     improvements to the Bank’s system of internal controls to ensure

compliance with the BSA/AML Requirements, including, but not limited to, customer due

diligence, beneficial ownership, and suspicious activity monitoring and reporting; and




                                                 11
                (b)    enhanced independent testing to ensure that comprehensive and timely

reviews of the Bank’s BSA/AML compliance program are performed on a regular basis by

qualified parties who are independent of the Bank’s BSA/AML compliance function.

Capital Conservation

        15.     (a)    Effective immediately, Bancshares shall not, directly or indirectly, declare

or pay dividends, engage in share repurchases, or make any other capital distribution in respect

of common shares, preferred shares, trust preferred shares, or other capital instruments,

including, without limitation, any interest payments due on subordinated debentures, without the

prior written approval of the Supervisors and the Director of Supervision and Regulation of the

Board of Governors. Effective immediately, the Bank shall not, directly or indirectly, declare or

pay dividends, engage in share repurchases, or make any other capital distribution in respect of

common shares, preferred shares, trust preferred shares, or other capital instruments, including,

without limitation, any interest payments due on subordinated debentures, without the prior

written approval of the Supervisors and the Director of Supervision and Regulation of the Board

of Governors. All requests for prior approval shall be received in writing at least 30 days prior to

the earlier of the proposed declaration, payment, or distribution date, or required notice of

deferral, and shall contain, at a minimum, current and projected information, as appropriate, on

Bancshares and the Bank’s respective capital, earnings, and cash flow; the Bank’s asset quality,

earnings, and ACL; and identification of the source(s) of funding for the proposed payment or

distribution.

                (b)    Effectively immediately, Bancshares and the Bank shall not, directly or

indirectly, incur, increase, or guarantee any debt without the prior written approval of the

Supervisors and the Director of Supervision and Regulation of the Board of Governors. All




                                                 12
requests for prior approval shall be received at least 30 days prior to the proposed transaction

date and contain, but not be limited to, a statement regarding the purpose of the debt, the terms of

the debt, and the planned source(s) for debt repayment, and an analysis of the cash flow

resources available to meet such debt repayment.

Compliance with Laws and Regulations

       16.     (a)     The Bank shall take all necessary steps to correct all apparent violations of

law or regulation cited in the Report of Examination. In addition, the Bank shall take necessary

steps to ensure future compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

               (b)     In appointing any new director or senior executive officer, or changing the

responsibilities of any senior executive officer so that the officer would assume a different senior

executive officer position, Bancshares and the Bank shall comply with the notice provisions of

section 32 of the FDI Act, as amended, (12 U.S.C. § 1831i) and Subpart H of Regulation Y of

the Board of Governors (12 C.F.R. §§ 225.71 et seq.).

                (c)    Bancshares and the Bank shall comply with the restrictions on

indemnification and severance payments of section 18(k) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1828(k))

and Part 359 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s regulations (12 C.F.R. § 359).

Progress Reports

       17.      Within 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter following the date of this

Agreement, the boards of directors of Bancshares and the Bank shall submit to the Supervisors,

written progress reports detailing the form and manner of all actions taken to secure compliance

with this Agreement and the results thereof.




                                                13
Approval and Implementation of Plans and Programs

       18.     (a)    The Bank shall submit the written plans, programs, policies, and

procedures that are acceptable to the Supervisors within the applicable time periods set forth in

paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10(c), 11, 13, and 14 of this Agreement. Each plan, program, policy,

and procedure shall contain a timeline for full implementation of the plan, program, or policy

with specific deadlines for the completion of each component of the plan, program, policy, or

procedure.

               (b)    Within 10 days of approval by the Supervisors, the Bank shall adopt the

approved plans, programs, policies, and procedures. Upon adoption the Bank shall promptly

implement the approved plans, programs, policies, and procedures and thereafter fully comply

with them.

               (c)    During the term of this Agreement, the approved plans, programs,

policies, and procedures shall not be amended or rescinded without the prior written approval of

the Supervisors.

Communications

       20.     All communications regarding this Agreement shall be sent to:

               (a)    Ms. Megan E. Kahlenberg
                      Vice President
                      Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
                      P.O. Box 442
                      St. Louis, Missouri 63166-0442

               (b)    Ms. Susana Soriano
                      Director of Banking
                      Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation
                      320 West Washington Street
                      Springfield, Illinois 62786




                                                14
                (c)    Mr. Carson Smith
                       President and Chief Executive Officer
                       Iuka Bancshares, Inc.
                       The Iuka State Bank
                       Bank of Eufaula
                       205 West Main Street
                       Salem, Illinois 62881

Miscellaneous

       21.      Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement, the Supervisors, as applicable,

may in their sole discretion, grant written extensions of time to Bancshares or the Bank to

comply with any provision of this Agreement.

       22.      The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon Bancshares, the Bank,

and their institution-affiliated parties, as defined in sections 3(u) and 8(b)(3) of the FDI Act

(12 U.S.C. §§1813(u) and 1818(b)(3)), in their capacities as such, and their successors and

assigns.

       23.      Each provision of this Agreement shall remain effective and enforceable until

stayed, modified, terminated, or suspended in writing by the Supervisors, as applicable.

       24.      The provisions of this Agreement shall not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent the

Board of Governors, the Reserve Bank, the IDFPR, or any other federal or state agency from

taking any other action affecting Bancshares or the Bank, or any of their current or former

institution-affiliated parties and their successors and assigns.

       25.      Pursuant to section 50 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1831aa), this Agreement is

enforceable by the Board of Governors under section 8 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1818).

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of

the 15th day of July, 2026.




                                                  15
IUKA BANCSHARES, INC.                  FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
                                       OF ST. LOUIS




By: /s/ Carson Smith                   By: /s/ Megan E. Kahlenberg
        Carson Smith                           Megan E. Kahlenberg
        President and                          Vice President
        Chief Executive Officer



THE IUKA STATE BANK                    ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF
                                       FINANCIAL AND PROFESSIONAL
                                       REGULATION




By: /s/ Carson Smith                   By: /s/ Susana Soriano
        Carson Smith                           Susana Soriano
        President and                          Director of Banking
        Chief Executive Officer




                                  16
