                        UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                               BEFORE THE
            BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.



Written Agreement by and among
                                                           Docket No. 26-016-WA/RB-HC
TS BANKING GROUP, INC.,
Treynor, Iowa

TS CONTRARIAN BANCSHARES, INC.,
Treynor, Iowa

and

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO
Chicago, Illinois




       WHEREAS, TS Banking Group, Inc., Treynor, Iowa (“TSBG”), is a registered bank

holding company that owns and controls TS Contrarian Bancshares, Inc., Treynor, Iowa

(“Bancshares”), a registered bank holding company, and TS Bank, Treynor, Iowa, a state-

chartered nonmember bank regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)

and the Iowa Division of Banking;

       WHEREAS, Bancshares wholly owns and controls The Bank of Tioga, Tioga, North

Dakota, a state-chartered nonmember bank regulated by the FDIC and the North Dakota

Department of Financial Institutions, and First National Bank & Trust Company, Clinton,

Illinois, a national bank regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”)

(“FNBTC,” and collectively with TS Bank and The Bank of Tioga, the “Banks”);
         WHEREAS, on July 16, 2025, the OCC entered into a Formal Agreement (the “Formal

Agreement”) with FNBTC to address unsafe or unsound practices, including those related to

capital, strategic planning, liquidity, and contingency funding planning;

         WHEREAS, it is the common goal of TSBG, Bancshares (collectively, the

“Companies”), and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (the “Reserve Bank”) to maintain the

financial soundness of the Companies so that they may serve as a source of strength to the

Banks;

         WHEREAS, the Companies and the Reserve Bank have mutually agreed to enter into this

Written Agreement (the “Agreement”);

         WHEREAS, the board of directors of the Companies have authorized the undersigned to

enter into this Agreement on behalf of the Companies, and consent to compliance with each and

every provision of this Agreement by the Companies.

         NOW, THEREFORE, TSBG, Bancshares, and the Reserve Bank agree as follows:

Source of Strength

         1.     The boards of directors of the Companies shall take appropriate steps to fully

utilize the Companies’ financial and managerial resources, pursuant to section 38A of the

Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDI Act”) (12 U.S.C. § 1831o-1) and section

225.4(a) of Regulation Y of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Board

of Governors”) (12 C.F.R. § 225.4(a)), to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength

to the Banks, including, but not limited to, demonstrating the ability to provide financial

assistance to the Banks as required by 12 U.S.C. § 1831o-1(a) and (f) by, for example, raising

additional capital or taking other steps to improve the financial condition of the Banks in the

event of the financial distress of the Banks, and taking steps to ensure that FNBTC complies with




                                                 2
the Formal Agreement, and any other supervisory action taken by the Banks’ federal or state

regulators.

Capital Plan

       2.      Within 60 days of the effective date of this Agreement, the Companies shall

submit a written plan that is acceptable to the Reserve Bank to maintain sufficient capital (the

“Capital Plan”) at the Companies on a consolidated basis and to provide financial assistance to

the Banks. The Capital Plan shall include the following three items:

               (a)     an assessment of the adequacy of the Banks’ capital, considering the

current and anticipated sources of capital;

               (b)     an action plan to raise additional capital or take other steps to improve the

financial conditions of the Banks which may include contributing assets to the Banks up to the

amount of the Companies’ capital; and

               (c)     an enhanced capital contingency plan that fully addresses both the

Companies’ and the Banks’ short-term and long-term capital needs.

Cash Flow Projections

       3.      Within 30 days of the effective date of this Agreement, each of the Companies

shall submit to the Reserve Bank a written statement of their planned sources and uses of cash

for debt service, operating expenses, and other purposes (“Cash Flow Projection”) for the

remainder of 2026. Each of the Companies shall submit to the Reserve Bank a Cash Flow

Projection for each calendar year subsequent to 2026 at least one month prior to the beginning of

that calendar year.




                                                 3
Capital Conservation

       4.      (a)     Effective immediately, the Companies shall not, directly or indirectly,

declare or pay dividends, engage in share repurchases, or make any other capital distribution in

respect of common shares, preferred shares, or other capital instruments, including, without

limitation, any interest payments due on subordinated debentures, without the prior written

approval of the Reserve Bank and the Director of Supervision and Regulation of the Board of

Governors (the “Director”). All requests for prior approval shall be received in writing at least

30 days prior to the earlier of the proposed declaration, payment, or distribution date, or required

notice of deferral, and shall contain, at a minimum, current and projected information, as

appropriate, on the Companies’ and Banks’ respective capital, earnings, and cash flow; the

Banks’ asset quality, earnings, and allowance for credit losses; and identification of the source(s)

of funding for the proposed payment or distribution.

               (b)     Effective immediately, the Companies shall not, directly or indirectly,

incur, increase, prepay, or guarantee any debt without the prior written approval of the Reserve

Bank and the Director. All requests for prior approval shall be received at least 30 days prior to

the proposed transaction date and contain, but not be limited to, a statement regarding the

purpose of the debt, the terms of the debt, and the planned source(s) for debt repayment, and an

analysis of the cash flow resources available to meet such debt repayment.

Compliance with Laws and Regulations

       5.      (a)     In appointing any new director or senior executive officer, or changing the

responsibilities of any senior executive officer so that the officer would assume a different senior

executive officer position, the Companies shall comply with the notice provisions of section 32




                                                 4
of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1831i) and Subpart H of Regulation Y of the Board of Governors

(12 C.F.R. §§ 225.71 et seq.).

               (b)    The Companies shall comply with the restrictions on indemnification and

severance payments of section 18(k) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1828(k)) and Part 359 of the

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s regulations (12 C.F.R. Part 359).

Progress Reports

       6.      Within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter following the date of this

Agreement, the Companies’ boards of directors shall submit to the Reserve Bank written

progress reports detailing the form and manner of all actions taken to secure compliance with the

provisions of this Agreement and the results thereof.

Approval and Implementation of Plans and Statements

       7.      (a)    The Companies shall submit the written plans and statements to the

Reserve Bank as set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Agreement. Each plan or statement shall

contain a timeline for full implementation of the plan or statement with specific deadlines for

completion of each component of the plan or statement.

               (b)    Within 10 days of approval by the Reserve Bank of the written plan set

forth in paragraph 2, the Companies shall adopt the approved plan. Upon adoption, the

Companies shall promptly implement the approved plan and thereafter fully comply with them.

               (c)    During the term of this Agreement, the approved plan shall not be

amended or rescinded without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank.




                                                 5
Communications

       8.       All communications regarding this Agreement shall be sent to:

                (a)    Corey Gabel
                       Assistant Vice President, Regional Director – Iowa
                       Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
                       7601 Office Plaza Drive North #150
                       West Des Moines, IA 50266

                (b)    Joshua M. Guttau
                       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
                       TS Banking Group, Inc.
                       15 East Main Street
                       Treynor, IA 51575

                (c)    Joshua M. Guttau
                       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
                       TS Contrarian Bancshares, Inc.
                       15 East Main Street
                       Treynor, IA 51575

Miscellaneous

       9.       Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement, the Reserve Bank may, in its

sole discretion, grant written extensions of time to the Companies to comply with any provision

of this Agreement.

       10.      The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon the Companies and their

institution-affiliated parties, as defined in sections 3(u) and 8(b)(3) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C.

§§ 1813(u) and 1818(b)(3)), in their capacities as such, and their successors and assigns.

       11.      Each provision of this Agreement shall remain effective and enforceable until

stayed, modified, terminated, or suspended in writing by the Reserve Bank.

       12.      The provisions of this Agreement shall not bar, estop, or otherwise prevent the

Board of Governors, the Reserve Bank, or any other federal or state agency from taking any




                                                  6
other action affecting the Companies, the Banks, any nonbank subsidiary of the Companies, or

any of their current or former institution-affiliated parties and their successors and assigns.

       13.     Pursuant to section 50 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1831aa), this Agreement is

enforceable by the Board of Governors under section 8 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. § 1818).

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of

the 6th day of July, 2026.


TS BANKING GROUP                                       FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
                                                       OF CHICAGO



By: /s/ Joshua M. Guttau                               By: /s/ Jennifer L. Barney
   Joshua M. Guttau                                        Jennifer L. Barney
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer                    Senior Vice President



TS CONTRARIAN BANCSHARES, INC.



By: /s/ Joshua M. Guttau
    Joshua M. Guttau
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer




                                                  7
