                                                                                                       Docket number: 24-CCB-0180
                                                                                                                September 22, 2026




                           Ping Lau                                                                Roselinde Skievaski
                                                                      V.
                          CLAIMANT                                                                   RESPONDENT




                                                   FINAL DETERMINATION

    On August 19, 2026, the Copyright Claims Board (Board) issued the below Proposed Dismissal Determination,

proposing a finding that the evidence submitted by Claimant Ping Lau is not sufficient to support a finding in favor of

Claimant. The Board proposed a dismissal of the claim without prejudice. More than thirty days have passed, and

Claimant has not submitted a statement objecting to the proposed dismissal. 37 C.F.R. § 227.3(a)(2). Therefore, the

Board issues the below Proposed Default Determination as a Final Determination. The Board finds the evidence

submitted by Claimant is not sufficient to support a finding in favor of Claimant and against Respondent, Roselinde

Skievaski. The Board therefore dismisses the Claim without prejudice.

*        *         *        *         *        *         *        *         *        *         *         *        *        *         *


    Respondent Roselinde Skievaski (“Skievaski” or “Respondent”) has not appeared or participated in this

proceeding before the Copyright Claims Board (“Board”), and the claim is now in default. When a respondent fails to

appear in a proceeding and the Board proceeds to a default determination, the Board shall require the claimant to

submit written direct testimony. 17 U.S.C. § 1506(u)(1); 37 C.F.R. § 227.2(a). The claimant, Ping Lau (“Lau” or

“Claimant”), has submitted testimony that the Board has reviewed, and now the Board issues this proposed

determination dismissing the proceeding. 37 C.F.R. § 227.3(a)(2). For the reasons below, the Board finds that the

presented evidence is insufficient to support a finding in favor of Lau and that the case must be dismissed without

prejudice. 1




1 “If the Board determines that the evidence is insufficient to support a finding in favor of the claimant or counterclaimant, the Board shall

prepare a proposed determination dismissing the proceeding without prejudice and shall provide written notice of such proposed
determination to the claimant or counterclaimant.” 37 CFR § 227.3(a)(2).
   I.      Procedural History

   Lau filed this copyright infringement claim on June 13, 2024 (Dkt. 1) and then amended the now-operative

claim on July 14, 2024 (“Claim”) (Dkt. 3). The Board found the Claim compliant, and on July 18, 2024, directed

Lau to serve Skievaski. (Dkt. 6). The Board emailed and mailed to Skievaski both the Scheduling Order and

Second Notice to Register at the email address and address provided in the claim. An initial conference was held on

January 8, 2025, and Skievaski did not attend. Also on January 8, 2025, the Board filed the First Default Notice

when the Respondent failed to register for the eCCB or file a response to the claim (“First Default”) (Dkt. 17), and

a Second Default Notice on January 24, 2025, when Respondent failed to respond to the First Defaul