                                                                                      Docket number: 25-CCB-0121
                                                                                                 August 18, 2026




                   Julie M Johnson                                                Sambo Sampson
                                                          V.
                      CLAIMANT                                                      RESPONDENT




                                          FINAL DETERMINATION

    This matter has been fully submitted by the parties. For the reasons that follow, the Copyright Claims Board

(“Board”) finds Respondent Sambo Sampson (“Sampson” or “Respondent”) liable for copyright infringement and

awards Claimant Julie M. Johnson (“Johnson” or “Claimant”) $1,500 in statutory damages. The Board also finds

that Respondent’s attorney William Wooten (“Wooten”) acted in bad faith during the course of this proceeding and

awards Johnson an additional $100 in costs for her filing fees in this case.

    I.      Procedural History

    Claimant filed this smaller-claims track copyright infringement claim on April 2, 2025 (“Claim”). (Dkt. 1). On

August 21, 2025, Respondent filed his response (Dkt. 15) to the Claim. For her written testimony, Claimant did not

file a party statement, but she filed an evidence list (Dkt. 30) and evidence (Dkt. 25-29, 31-33). For his written

testimony, Respondent just filed a position statement (“Sampson Party Statement”). (Dkt. 24).

    Pursuant to 37 C.F.R. § 226.1, the Board held a Merits Conference on April 1, 2026, at which Claimant and

Respondent testified. Merits Conference transcript (on file with the Board). After the Merits Conference, at the

request of the Board, Johnson filed Respondent’s interrogatory responses (Dkt. 34). The Board issued Proposed

Findings of Fact on May 27, 2026 (“Proposed Facts”). (Dkt. 35). On June 17, 2026, Respondent filed a response

(Dkt. 39) to Proposed Facts No. 11 & 12 just to the extent they implied that Sampson consummated sales of the

allegedly infringed product or continued to make those sales. The case is now ready for final determination.
    II.     Factual History

    For an understanding of the facts underlying this proceeding, the reader is referred to the Findings of Fact,

attached to this determination.1 Facts No. 11 & 12 shall be read to say that Sampson attempted to market and sell

the allegedly infringing product and continued to do so after telling Johnson he would not. There is not enough

evidence to determine that actual sales were consummated.

    III.    Legal Analysis

    To succeed on a claim for copyright infringement, a claimant must establish: “(1) ownership of a valid

copyright, and (2) copying of constituent elements of the work that are original.” Feist Publications, Inc. v. Rural

Telephone Serv. Co., Inc., 499 U.S. 340, 361 (1991). As described in the Findings of Fact, Claimant owns a registered

design called “Zane” (“Zane” or the “Work”), which she sells on saddle blankets. Sampson sold saddle blankets

with almost exactly the same design as Claimant’s Work, albeit with different colors than the Zane red-black-white

combination. Sampson had seen Johnson’s Zane pad design online before he began to market his allegedly

infringing pads, and, in any case, his pads’ designs are strikingly similar to the Work. Without permission, or a valid

other defense, Sampson’s act