                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
                         OFFICE OF FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL




Enforcement Release: February 12, 2026


 IMG Academy, LLC Settles with OFAC for $1.7 Million Related to Apparent Violations of
                             Counternarcotics Sanctions

IMG Academy, a school and athletic training facility headquartered in Bradenton, Florida, has
agreed to pay $1,720,000 to settle its potential civil liability for apparent violations of OFAC
counternarcotics sanctions. Over five consecutive years, IMG Academy repeatedly transacted with
two individuals whom OFAC sanctioned based upon their ties to a sanctioned Mexican-based drug
cartel.

The settlement amount reflects OFAC’s determination that IMG Academy’s apparent violations
were non-egregious and not voluntarily self-disclosed. It also reflects IMG Academy’s substantial
cooperation with OFAC and remedial measures taken since IMG Academy became aware of the
apparent violations. More broadly, this enforcement action highlights the importance of institutions
across a wide variety of sectors, including academic institutions, implementing effective, risk-based
controls to avoid sanctions violations and prevent illicit actors from obtaining benefits in the United
States.

Background and Description of the Apparent Violations

IMG Academy offers elite academic and sports training opportunities to U.S. and international
student-athletes through full-time boarding school programs, professional training programs, camps,
online coaching services, and college sports recruiting resources. IMG Academy’s student body
includes athletes from all over the world, and it has recruiting offices or representatives in Mexico,
China, Japan, and South Korea.

Between 2018 and 2022, IMG Academy entered into yearly contracts, in the form of tuition
enrollment agreements (TEAs or “agreements”), with two Specially Designated National (SDN)
individuals—hereafter “SDN 1” and “SDN 2,” or “the SDNs” collectively—sanctioned under the
Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act for providing financial support and services to a
sanctioned Mexican Drug Trafficking Organization (DTO) and/or to its principal leader. IMG
Academy also received and processed tuition and related payments pursuant to these agreements
throughout the course of its relationship with the SDNs. These agreements and transactions were
undertaken for the enrollment and attendance of the SDNs’ two student-athlete children.

                         IMG Academy TEAs with Sanctioned Individuals

In January 2018, SDN 1 enrolled their child (“Student-Athlete 1”) in one of IMG Academy’s
boarding programs and entered into a TEA with IMG Academy. For each of the five academic
years that followed, IMG Academy and SDN 1 renewed their TEAs annually until Student-Athlete
1’s graduation in Spring 2023. SDN 1’s payment obligations pursuant to each TEA ranged from
$47,026 for half a semester to $98,867 for a full academic year of Student-Athlete 1’s enrollment.
In July 2020, SDN 2 enrolled their child (“Student-Athlete 2”) into one of IMG Academy’s student-
athlete boarding programs and entered into a TEA with IMG Academy. In the two academic years
that followed, IMG Academy and SDN 2 renewed their TEAs annually for each subsequent
academic year until Student-Athlete 2 withdrew from the program in June 2022. SDN 2’s payment
obligations pursuant to each TEA ranged from $100,549 to $102,235 for each full academic year of
Student-Athlete 2’s enrollment.

Each TEA obligated SDN 1 and SDN 2 to be unconditionally responsible for payment of their
respective child’s account, which included charges for tuition, lodging, and ancillary fees and
expenses incurred by each child during their attendance.

                            Transactions for the Benefit of Blocked TEAs

SDN 1 and SDN 2 primarily satisfied their payment obligations to IMG Academy through third-
party wire transfers and credit card payments that the SDNs placed on file with IMG. Specifically,
IMG Academy would receive wire transfers from non-designated third-party individuals and
entities, primarily located in Mexico, into its bank account at a U.S. financial institution, for further
credit to each student-athlete account. IMG Academy would also charge payments to credit cards
that were on file for each student-athlete. In addition, when a positive end-of-year balance existed
on either student-athlete’s account, IMG Academy would apply the amounts from one academic
school year to the next to satisfy a portion of IMG Academy’s new TEA with the respective SDN.

As a result of the conduct described above, between 2019 and 2025, IMG Academy dealt in the
property or interests in property of SDN 1 and SDN 2, on 89 occasions, in apparent violation of
31 C.F.R. § 598.202 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Sanctions Regulations (FNKSR) (the
“Apparent Violations”) by entering into three TEAs with SDN 1, three TEAs with SDN 2, and by
engaging in 83 transactions to satisfy tuition and related payment obligations associated with IMG
Academy’s TEAs with SDN 1 and SDN 2.

Penalty Calculations and General Factors Analysis

OFAC determined that IMG Academy did not voluntarily self-disclose the Apparent Violations and
that the Apparent Violations constitute a non-egregious case. Although IMG Academy informed
OFAC of the Apparent Violations as soon as it became aware of them, OFAC had already initiated
an investigation at the time IMG Academy made its disclosure. Accordingly, under OFAC’s
Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines (“Enforcement Guidelines”), 31 C.F.R. Part 501,
app. A., the base civil monetary penalty applicable in this matter equals the applicable schedule
amount, which is $1,720,000.

The settlement amount of $1,720,000 reflects OFAC’s consideration of the General Factors under
the Enforcement Guidelines.

OFAC determined the following to be aggravating factors:




                                                    2
   (1) IMG Academy demonstrated reckless disregard for U.S. sanctions requirements in
       committing the Apparent Violations, including by failing to conduct sanctions screening
       checks on its counterparties. During the application process, enrollment stage, and upon
       signing of each TEA, the SDNs provided full name details that matched their entries on the
       SDN List. Minimal due diligence at any point throughout this process would have revealed
       that these customers were sanctioned. This failure allowed numerous violations to occur
       over an extended period of time.

   (2) Although IMG may have lacked actual knowledge that the individuals with whom it dealt
       with were sanctioned, IMG Academy did have actual knowledge of the underlying
       transactions giving rise to the apparent violations. IMG Academy entered into annual
       tuition enrollment agreements directly with the SDNs, invoiced the SDNs by name, and
       routinely communicated with each of them about payment obligations or the processing of
       overpayments, credits, or refunds into each respective student athlete account.

   (3) As a result of IMG Academy’s conduct, designated individuals who provided financial
       support and services to a sanctioned Mexican drug cartel were able to conduct commerce
       with U.S. persons and gain access to the U.S. financial system. This conduct allowed the
       children of two of the designated DTO’s leaders to obtain elite academic and athletic
       training services in the United States.

OFAC determined the following to be mitigating factors:

   (1) IMG Academy has not received a Penalty Notice or Finding of Violation from OFAC in the
       five years preceding the earliest date of the transactions giving rise to the Apparent
       Violations.

   (2) IMG Academy took immediate remedial steps after learning of the Apparent Violations and
       has since developed and implemented an OFAC sanctions compliance program.
       Specifically, after an ownership change in June 2023, IMG Academy hired, among other
       leadership positions, a new Chief Legal Officer who conducted a comprehensive lookback
       and implemented a risk-based sanctions compliance program.

   (3) IMG Academy cooperated with OFAC by timely and substantively responding to all
       requests for information. IMG Academy also agreed to toll the statute of limitations
       throughout the course of OFAC’s investigation.

Compliance Considerations

This case highlights the pervasiveness of sanctions risk across a wide variety of sectors and
institutions. Even for entities operating largely domestically, the presence of international
touchpoints creates opportunities for impermissible dealings with sanctioned actors, inadvertently or
otherwise. Sanctions risk can vary tremendously based upon numerous factors. While factors like
sector and geographic location often predominate, they are by no means exclusive. Academic
institutions are not immune. Sanctioned persons, like many others, may wish to avail themselves or
their families of the opportunities available in the United States, including potentially to distance



                                                 3
their children from their own illicit activities. Consequently, academic institutions should be on the
lookout for payment arrangements that may involve sanctioned persons.

In addition to courting and enrolling students from around the world, schools and universities often
host visiting faculty from other countries and engage in international exchange programs. They
may collaborate with foreign institutions, maintain international research and commercial ties,
invest in companies located abroad, or operate global campuses. Certain of these activities may be
exempt from sanctions or covered by a general license, but others are not. As with any other
enterprise, academic institutions must be sure they understand all sources of sanctions risk and
implement effective controls to ensure their activities do not violate U.S. sanctions prohibitions.

Strong management commitment and a comprehensive risk assessment are the logical first steps.
Academic institutions face some unique risks given the variety of parties who may satisfy financial
obligations for a student. As a starting point, it may be advisable to screen students, counterparties
to tuition agreements, and payors against OFAC’s SDN List, in addition to using available
information to understand whether any associated parties are located in a comprehensively
sanctioned jurisdiction or otherwise have ties to a sanctioned person or entity. A determination can
then be made regarding whether the activity is exempt or authorized, or whether applying for a
specific license from OFAC is appropriate. Academic institutions may also wish to conduct regular
independent testing and auditing to ensure their controls are operating effectively and provide
training for all relevant personnel to facilitate ongoing compliance. Such steps, if taken in earnest,
may help substantially reduce the chances of violating U.S. sanctions.

OFAC Enforcement and Compliance Resources

On May 2, 2019, OFAC published A Framework for OFAC Compliance Commitments in order to
provide organizations subject to U.S. jurisdiction, as well as foreign entities that conduct business in
or with the United States or U.S. persons, or that use goods or services exported from the United
States, with OFAC’s perspective on the essential components of a sanctions compliance program.
The Framework also outlines how OFAC may incorporate these components into its evaluation of
apparent violations and resolution of investigations resulting in settlements. The Framework
includes an appendix that offers a brief analysis of some of the root causes of apparent violations of
U.S. economic and trade sanctions programs OFAC has identified during its investigative process.

Information concerning the civil penalties process can be found in the OFAC regulations governing
each sanctions program; the Reporting, Procedures, and Penalties Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 501;
and the Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines, 31 C.F.R. part 501, app. A. These
references, as well as recent civil penalties and enforcement information, can be found on OFAC’s
website at https://ofac.treasury.gov/civil-penalties-and-enforcement-information.

Whistleblower Program

The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
maintains a whistleblower incentive program for violations of OFAC-administered sanctions, in
addition to violations of the Bank Secrecy Act. Individuals located in the United States or abroad
who provide information may be eligible for awards, if the information they provide leads to a



                                                   4
successful enforcement action that results in monetary penalties exceeding $1,000,000 and the
statutory requirements in 31 U.S.C. 5323 are otherwise met. The incentive program is available for
whistleblowers providing information relating to potential violations at any type of enterprise in any
commercial sector. FinCEN is currently accepting whistleblower tips.

For more information regarding OFAC regulations, please go to: https://ofac.treasury.gov/.




                                                  5
