                        UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                            AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE

                                   BEFORE THE ADMINISTRATOR



                                              )
        In re:                                )
                                              )
        Sunshine Farms of                     )       Administrator’s Decision
         Martin County LLC                    )
                                              )       APL-090-24
        Palm City, Florida                    )
                                              )

        This Decision responds to an Appeal (APL-090-24) of a Notice of Noncompliance and

Denial of Certification of a Portion of Operation, as well as a Notice of Noncompliance and

Denial of Certification for Entire Operation under the National Organic Program (NOP) issued to

Sunshine Farms of Martin County LLC (Sunshine) by Quality Certification Services (QCS), a

USDA accredited certifying agent. The operation has been deemed not in compliance with the

Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (Act)1 and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)

organic regulations.2

                                         BACKGROUND

        The Act authorizes the Secretary to accredit agents to certify crop, livestock, wild crop,

and/or handling operations to the USDA organic regulations (7 C.F.R. Part 205). Certifying

agents also initiate compliance actions to enforce program requirements, as described in section

205.662, Noncompliance procedure for certified operations. Persons subject to the Act who

believe they are adversely affected by a noncompliance decision of a certifying agent may appeal

                               
ϭ
 ϳh͘^͘͘ϲϱϬϭͲϲϱϮϮ
Ϯ
 ϳ͘&͘Z͘WĂƌƚϮϬϱ

                                            Page 1 of 12
such decision to the USDA Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) pursuant to § 205.680

Adverse Action Appeals Process – General, and § 205.681, Appeals of the USDA organic

regulations.

                                    FINDINGS OF FACT

1.     In April 2024, Sunshine applied to QCS for crop certification.

2.     On June 17, 2024, QCS conducted an inspection of the applicant Sunshine.

3.     On September 10, 2024, QCS issued a Notice of Noncompliance and Denial of

Certification of a Portion of the Operation to Sunshine.

4.     On September 27, 2024, QCS issued a Notice of Noncompliance and Denial of

Certification for the Entire Operation to Sunshine.

5.     On September 30, 2024, Sunshine submitted an Appeal to both adverse action notices.



                                REGULATORY CITATIONS

       The USDA organic regulations at 7 C.F.R. §205.105, Allowed and prohibited substances,

methods, and ingredients in organic production and handling, state that, “To be sold or labeled as

“100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food

group(s)),” the product must be produced and handled without the use of: (a) Synthetic

substances and ingredients, except as provided in §205.601 or §205.603; (b) Nonsynthetic

substances prohibited in §205.602 or §205.604 …”

       The organic regulations at §205.201, Organic production and handling system plan, state

that, “(a) The producer or handler of a production or handling operation … intending to sell,

label, or represent agricultural products as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with

organic (specified ingredients or food group(s))” must develop an organic production or handling


                                           Page 2 of 12
system plan that is agreed to by the producer or handler and an accredited certifying agent. An

organic system plan must meet the requirements set forth in this section for organic production

or handling. An organic production or handling system plan must include: (1) A description of

practices and procedures to be performed and maintained, including the frequency with which

they will be performed; (2) A list of each substance to be used as a production or handling input,

indicating its composition, source, location(s) where it will be used, and documentation of

commercial availability, as applicable; … (4) A description of the recordkeeping system

implemented to comply with the requirements established in §205.103; … (6) Additional

information deemed necessary by the certifying agent to evaluate compliance with the

regulations…”

       The organic regulations at §205.202, Land requirements, state that, “Any field or farm

parcel from which harvested crops are intended to be sold, labeled, or represented as “organic,”

must: … (b) Have had no prohibited substances, as listed in §205.105, applied to it for a period

of 3 years immediately preceding harvest of the crop …”

       The organic regulations at §205.204, Seeds and planting stock practice standard, state

that, “(a) The producer must use organically grown seeds, annual seedlings, and planting stock:

Except, That, (1) Nonorganically produced, untreated seeds and planting stock may be used to

produce an organic crop when an equivalent organically produced variety is not commercially

available…”

       The organic regulations at §205.400, General requirements for certification, state that, “A

person seeking to receive or maintain organic certification under the regulations in this part must:

(a) Comply with the Act and applicable organic production and handling regulations in this part;

(b) Establish, implement, and update annually an organic production or handling system plan …


                                           Page 3 of 12
(f) Immediately notify the certifying agent concerning any: (1) Application including drift, of a

prohibited substance to any field, production unit, site, facility, livestock, or product that is part

of an operation …”

                                              DISCUSSION

        Sunshine applied to QCS for crop certification in April 2024, specifically dragon fruit
                                                           (b) (4)                           (b) (4)
and mango trees, with dragon fruit in Zone I with                    acres and Zone 2 with         acres, and the
                                (b) (4)
mango trees in Zone III with          acres. QCS conducted an inspection on June 17, 2024, at

which Sunshine requested to add Clonex Clone Solution (Clonex) as an input to its Organic

System Plan (OSP). Clonex is a liquid solution used to promote growth in plant tissue, cells, and

roots. The input wasn’t identified in Sunshine’s OSP at the time, nor had it been approved for

use in Sunshine’s organic production. Subsequently, on July 22, 2024, Sunshine emailed QCS

and stated that it had previously dipped the dragon fruit cuttings/planting stock in the Clonex on

December 23 and 26, 2023 and then planted the dragon fruit planting stock in Zones 1 and 2 of

its operation. However, QCS stated that the Clonex contained several prohibited substances that

were not on the National List.

        The QCS inspector also found that Sunshine hadn’t conducted a commercial availability

search for organic planting stock of dragon fruit, and the planted dragon fruit planting stock was

conventional untreated planting stock. The inspector identified an organic source in California

which had organic dragon fruit planting stock, demonstrating its availability. Sunshine

acknowledged this but hadn’t searched for or acquired organic dragon fruit from the California

(or any other) operation. Therefore, QCS issued a Notice of Noncompliance and Denial of

Certification as to a Portion of the Operation on September 10, 2024. Specifically, QCS found
                 (b) (4)                      (b) (4)
that Zone 1 of         acres, and Zone 2 of             acres, where the dragon fruit dipped in the Clonex
