European Medicines Agency
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Assessment report
Article 20 referral
Tavneos (avacopan)
CHMP recommended revocation of the marketing authorisation after the benefit-risk assessment of avacopan in ANCA-associated vasculitis.
The CHMP considered the benefit-risk of the marketing authorisation. Scientific conclusions follow from the assessment report.
Paragraph 1 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 2 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 3 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 4 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 5 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 6 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 7 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 8 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 9 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 10 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance. Paragraph 11 of the official Tavneos referral assessment continues the CHMP evaluation of the marketing authorisation and the benefit-risk balance.
