                    UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
             FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK
                  DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY



IN THE MATTER OF:                                 )
                                                  )
                                                  )
                                                  )                  Number 2021-01
Capital One, National Association                 )
McLean, Virginia                                  )



                    ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL MONEY PENALTY

        The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) has determined

that grounds exist to assess a civil money penalty against Capital One, National

Association (CONA or the Bank), pursuant to the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and

regulations issued pursuant to the BSA.1

        CONA has admitted to the facts set forth below and that its conduct violated

the BSA. CONA has consented to the assessment of a civil money penalty and

entered into a CONSENT TO THE ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL MONEY PENALTY

(CONSENT) with FinCEN. The CONSENT is incorporated into this ASSESSMENT

OF CIVIL MONEY PENALTY (ASSESSMENT) by reference.


                                         JURISDICTION

        At all times relevant to this ASSESSMENT, CONA was a “financial institution”

and a “bank” within the meaning of the BSA and its implementing regulations.2

FinCEN has the authority to impose civil money penalties on financial institutions,

including banks, that violate the BSA.3


1.      The BSA is codified at 31 U.S.C. §§ 5311-5314, 5316-5332, and 12 U.S.C. §§ 1829b, 1951-1959. Reg-
ulations implementing the BSA appear at 31 C.F.R. Chapter X.
2.      31 U.S.C. § 5312(a)(2)(A); 31 C.F.R. §§ 1010.100(d)(1), 1010.100(t)(1).
3.      31 U.S.C. § 5321(a); 31 C.F.R. § 1010.810(d).

                                                  –1–

                                       DETERMINATIONS

        FinCEN has determined that CONA violated certain of its BSA obligations

for a particular business unit, namely, its Check Cashing Group (CCG), from in or

about 2008 through in or about 2014. As described below in the Statement of Facts,

CONA willfully failed to establish and maintain an effective anti-money laundering

(AML) program to guard against money laundering within the CCG. Further, CONA

willfully4 failed to accurately and timely file suspicious activity reports (SARs) on

suspicious transactions associated with the CCG. Last, CONA negligently failed to

timely file currency transaction reports (CTRs) for the CCG. CONA’s violations of

its BSA obligations resulted in the failure to accurately and timely report millions of

dollars in suspicious transactions, including proceeds connected to organized crime,

tax evasion, fraud, and other financial crimes laundered through the Bank into the

U.S. financial system.


                                    STATEMENT OF FACTS

        The following facts took place beginning in or about 2008 and continuing until

in or about 2014 (the relevant time), unless otherwise indicated.


    Background

            The BSA

        The BSA requires banks to implement and maintain an effective AML program

in order to guard against money laundering.5 Additionally, the BSA imposes

affirmative duties on banks such as CONA, including the duty to identify and report


4.       In civil enforcement of the BSA under 31 U.S.C. § 5321(a)(1), to establish that a financial institu-
tion or individual acted willfully, the government need only show that the financial institution or indi-
vidual acted with either reckless disregard or willful blindness. The government need not show that the
entity or individual had knowledge that the conduct violated the BSA, or that the entity or individual
otherwise acted with an improper motive or bad purpose. CONA admits to “willfulness” only as the
term is used in civil enforcement of the BSA under 31 U.S.C. § 5321(a)(1).
5.       31 U.S.C. § 5318(h); 31 C.F.R. § 1020.210; 12 C.F.R. § 21.21.

                                                    –2–

suspicious transactions in SARs filed with FinCEN and identify and report certain

currency transactions in CTRs filed with FinCEN.6 The reporting and transparency

that financial institutions provide through these reports is essential financial

intelligence that FinCEN, law enforcement, and others use to safeguard the U.S.

financial system and combat serious threats, including money laundering, terrorist

financing, organized crime, corruption, drug trafficking, and massive fraud schemes

targeting the U.S. government, businesses, and individuals.7

            The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)

        FinCEN is a bureau within the U.S. Department of the Treasury and is the

federal authority that enforces the BSA by investigating and imposing civil money

penalties and compliance measures on financial institutions, nonfinancial trades

or businesses, and individuals for willful and negligent violations of the BSA. As

delegated by the Secretary of the Treasury, FinCEN has “[o]verall authority for

enforcement and compliance, including coordination and direction of procedures

and activities of all other agencies exercising delegated authority under this

chapter” and its implementing regulations, including the Office of the Comptroller

of the Currency (OCC).8

            The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)

        The OCC is a federal banking agency within the U.S. Department of the

Treasury that has both delegated authority from FinCEN and some autonomous

authority under Title 12 of the United States Code to examine national banks for

compliance with the BSA. Under these authorities, it conducts regular examinations

and issues reports assessing national banks’ BSA compliance.9

6.     31 U.S.C. § 5313; 31 C.F.R. §§ 1010.311, 1020.320(a).
7.     FinCEN, FIN-2014-A007, FinCEN Advisory to U.S. Financial Institutions on Promoting a Culture of
Compliance (Aug. 11, 2014).
8.     31 C.F.R. § 1010.810(a).
9.     12 U.S.C. § 1818(s)(2); 12 C.F.R. § 21.21.

                                                  –3–

           Capital One, National Association (CONA)

       CONA is a wholly owned subsidiary of Capital One Financial Corporation

(COFC), a Delaware corporation and bank holding company headquartered in

McLean, Virginia. COFC is one of the nation’s largest banks and takes an enterprise-

wide approach to its BSA/AML obligation. CONA provides a broad spectrum

of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses, and

commercial clients throughout the U.S. and is regulated by, among other regulators,

the OCC. CONA is a “financial institution” and a “bank” within the meaning of the

BSA and its implementing regulations.10

           CONA’s Check Cashing Group (CCG)

       In December 2006, COFC acquired North Fork Bank (NFB), including NFB’s New

York and New Jersey check cashing customers. NFB merged into CONA on August

1, 2007, and by 2008 CONA established the CCG as part of its Middle Market Lending

group within its Commercial Bank. CONA operated the CCG until it made the decision

to exit this business line in December 2013, and ultimately exited in 2014. CONA was

responsible for ensuring that it met the BSA’s legal requirements in banking the CCG.11

       The CCG customer base included a range of between approximately 90 and

150 New York- and New Jersey-area check cashers that usually operated storefront

locations and conducted check cashing as their primary business. CCG customers

cashed checks by providing cash in exchange for paper checks from individuals

(known as retail checks) and from business entities (known as corporate checks)

and charged a fee for this service. CONA provided banking services to the CCG

including, among other things, processing checks deposited by CCG customers and

providing CCG customers with armored car cash shipments. CCG customers used

10.   31 U.S.C. § 5312(a)(2)(A); 31 C.F.R. §§ 1010.100(d)(1), 1010.100(t)(1).
11.   The BSA separately requires check cashers (and other money services businesses) to have their
own AML programs, file CTRs, and register with FinCEN.

                                                –4–

over 1,000 CONA accounts related to their check cashing businesses, including to

deposit checks they cashed. CONA also provided CCG customers with the currency

needed to cash checks, which was mostly delivered via armored car shipments.


    AML PROGRAM VIOLATIONS

        In order to guard against money laundering, the BSA and its implementing

regulations require each financial institution to establish an AML program that

includes at a minimum: (a) the development of internal policies, procedures, and

controls; (b) designation of a compliance officer; (c) an ongoing employee training

program; and (d) an independent audit function to test programs.12 As further

described below, CONA willfully violated the BSA’s AML Program requirements

from in or about 2008 until in or about 2014.

            Early Warnings

        CONA built its Retail and Commercial Bank lines of business primarily by

virtue of a series of acquisitions of regional banks, beginning with the acquisition

of Hibernia Bank (Hibernia) in November 2005 and the acquisition of NFB in

December 2006.13 Hibernia and NFB began operating under CONA’s name in April

2006 and March 2008, respectively. Prior to CONA’s acquisitions of and mergers

with Hibernia and NFB, federal and state bank regulators identified deficiencies in

the AML programs at both banks, including weaknesses in transaction monitoring,



12.      31 U.S.C. § 5318(h); 31 C.F.R. § 1020.210 (prior to July 2016 amendments).
13.      In April 2005, FinCEN and the federal banking agencies issued interpretive guidance on provid-
ing banking services to MSBs such as check cashers that states, “as with any category of accountholder,
there will be [MSBs] that pose little risk of money laundering and those that pose significant risk.” This
guidance specifically states that “banking organizations that open and maintain accounts for [MSBs]” are
expected to apply the BSA requirements, “as they do with all accountholders, on a risk-assessed basis.”
In order to properly assess risk, the bank should know the types of services the MSB accountholder en-
gages in, such as if the customer’s primary business is derived from check cashing. The FinCEN guidance
states, “a check casher that cashes any type of third-party check or cashes checks for commercial enter-
prises (which generally involve larger amounts)” presents a higher risk of money laundering. FIL-32-
2005, Interagency Interpretive Guidance on Providing Banking Services to Money Services Businesses in
the United States (Apr. 26, 2005).

                                                  –5–

suspicious activity identification, and CTR filing. Further, around the time of

CONA’s acquisition of NFB, the OCC notified CONA personnel of certain AML

risks associated with banking the CCG. Then, in 2008, New York County indicted a

CCG customer and its President and owner for various charges directly related to its

business operations. CONA responded to these issues and risks by implementing

certain AML controls, but these efforts, as further described below, failed to effectively

address the illicit finance risk associated with the CCG.

          Establishment of AML Program

      After acquiring and incorporating NFB and Hibernia, CONA internally

acknowledged having significant “residual AML risk attributable to inadequate AML

internal controls.” To address the deficiencies identified by its regulators, CONA

hired BSA/AML officers to build out an enterprise-wide AML program befitting

CONA’s consolidated operations. Over time, these officers produced enterprise-

wide AML policies, procedures, and process controls. However, these controls and

procedures were inadequate to address the money laundering risk associated with

the CCG, were inconsistently and ineffectively implemented for CCG customers, were

plagued by a number of technical failures that were not promptly addressed, and

gave too much credence to dubious explanations from the business line about CCG

banking activity, all of which ultimately resulted in a failure to guard against money

laundering and other criminal and suspicious activity.

          Customer Due Diligence and Reviews

      A bank’s management should have a thorough understanding of the money

laundering risks of its customer base. Further, as part of its AML processes, a bank

should stay apprised of changes within the industry, business models, and customer

profiles and patterns that impact the source, nature, or purpose of a customer’s

transactional activity; understand red flag indicators; and act on information learned

                                          –6–

through the AML process. A bank should combine all of its knowledge about its

customers’ industries, legitimate business models, individual occupations and

activity, and money laundering indicators to assess money laundering risks and

apply appropriate risk ratings. Those risk ratings can then aid a bank in assessing

the appropriate basis for due diligence and ongoing transaction monitoring for its

customers.

      In mid-2008, CONA connected certain CCG customer information to its

enterprise-wide automated AML monitoring system, which rated customers based

on their overall risk for money laundering. CONA used a risk scoring system based

on points it assigned for various factors. Based on the risk of the industry and

geographic location, CCG customers automatically received a baseline number of

points placing them in the highest risk category. One such review conducted in 2010

identified 6,000 Bank customers at highest risk for money laundering. Most CCG

customers ranked in the top 100 of these highest risk customers, including C&F Inc.

(C&F), a Domenick Pucillo (Pucillo) check cashing entity that was the highest risk

among the CCG at number 21 for the entire bank.14

      CONA used the customer scores for different purposes, including semi-annual

high-risk customer reviews, which was CONA’s greatest frequency for regular AML

reviews. While these semi annual high-risk customer reviews did focus on identifying

if the customer had negative news on them, assessing account activity, comparing the

historic dollar volume to the current dollar volume to assess the reasonableness of the

CCG customer’s transaction activity, and sampling checks within the CCG account,

they failed to fully enable CONA to understand the nature and legitimacy of their

customers’ activity and patterns therein.



14.   If one aggregates ties, C&F’s rank increases to 18.

                                                 –7–
