UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


IN THE MATTER OF:                                             )
                                                              )                Number 2025-02
Paxful, Inc. and                                              )
Paxful USA, Inc.                                              )
                                                              )


                    CONSENT ORDER IMPOSING CIVIL MONEY PENALTY

        The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) conducted a civil enforcement

investigation and determined grounds exist to impose a Civil Money Penalty against Paxful, Inc. and

Paxful, USA Inc. (collectively, Paxful or the Company) 1 for violations of the Bank Secrecy Act

(BSA) and its implementing regulations. 2 Paxful admits to the Statement of Facts and Violations set

forth below, consents to the issuance of this Consent Order, agrees to pay the civil money penalty

imposed in this Consent Order, and agrees to comply with the provisions of this Consent Order.

  I.    JURISDICTION

        Overall authority for enforcement and compliance with the BSA lies with the Director of

FinCEN, and the Director of FinCEN may impose civil penalties for violations of the BSA and its

implementing regulations. 3




1
  Unless otherwise indicated, all references to Paxful or the Company prior to 2019 are to Paxful, Inc. Thereafter, all
references to Paxful or the Company are to both Paxful, Inc. and Paxful USA, Inc., unless otherwise indicated.
2
   The BSA is codified at 12 U.S.C. §§ 1829b, 1951-1960, 31 U.S.C. §§ 5311-5314, 5316-5336 and includes other
authorities reflected in notes thereto. Regulations implementing the BSA appear at 31 C.F.R. Chapter X.
3
  31 U.S.C. § 5321(a); 31 C.F.R. § 1010.810(a), (d); Treasury Order 180-01 (July 1, 2014, reaff’d Jan. 14, 2020).
           Paxful was a “domestic financial institution,” specifically, a “money services business”

(MSB), as defined by the BSA and its implementing regulations, at all times relevant to this Consent

Order. 4

           The term “money services business” is defined in 31 C.F.R. §1010.100(ff) as any of the

following categories of business: (1) dealers in foreign exchange; (2) check cashers; (3) issuers or

sellers of traveler’s checks or money orders; (4) providers of prepaid access; (5) money transmitters;

(6) U.S. Postal Service; or (7) sellers of prepaid access. The regulations define the term “money

transmitter” as a person that either “provides money transmission services” or who is otherwise

“engaged in the transfer of funds.” 5 “Money transmission services” are defined in FinCEN’s

regulations as “the acceptance of currency, funds, or other value that substitutes for currency from

one person and the transmission of currency, funds, or other value that substitutes for currency to

another location or person by any means.” 6 Paxful’s activity, as described in this Consent Order,

meets the definition of a money transmitter, a type of MSB.

           Registration: The BSA and its implementing regulations require an MSB, such as Paxful, to

register as an MSB with FinCEN within 180 days of beginning operations and                  to    renew      that

registration every two years. 7

           AML Program: The BSA and its implementing regulations require an MSB, such as Paxful,

to develop, implement, and maintain an effective Anti-Money Laundering (AML) program that is

reasonably designed to prevent the MSB from being used to facilitate money laundering and the


4
  See 31 U.S.C. § 5312(b)(1) (defining domestic financial institution); 31 C.F.R. §§ 1010.100(ff) (defining “money
services business”) and 1010.100(ff)(5) (defining “money transmitter”). FinCEN also issued interpretive guidance
explaining why CVC exchangers are money transmitters. See FIN-2013-G001, “Application of FinCEN’s Regulations to
Persons Administering, Exchanging, or Using Virtual Currencies,” March 18, 2013; see also FIN-2019-G001,
“Application of FinCEN’s Regulations to Certain Business Models Involving Convertible Virtual Currencies,” May 9,
2019.
5
  31 C.F.R. § 1010.100(ff)(5).
6
  31 C.F.R. § 1010.100(ff)(5)(i)(A).
7
  31 U.S.C. § 5330; 31 C.F.R. § 1022.380(b)(2), (3).


                                                        2
financing of terrorist activities.8 Paxful was required to develop, implement, and maintain an

effective, written AML program that, at a minimum: (1) incorporates policies, procedures, and

internal controls reasonably designed to assure ongoing compliance with the BSA and its

implementing regulations; (2) designates an individual responsible to assure day-to-day compliance

with the MSB’s AML program and all BSA regulations; (3) provides education and/or training for

appropriate personnel, including training in the detection of suspicious transactions; and (4) provides

for independent review to monitor and maintain an adequate program. 9

         Suspicious Activity Reporting: The BSA and its implementing regulations require an MSB,

such as Paxful, to identify and report suspicious transactions relevant to a possible violation of law or

regulation in Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) filed with FinCEN. Specifically, the BSA and its

implementing regulations require MSBs to report transactions that involve or aggregate to at least

$2,000, are conducted by, at, or through the MSB, and that the MSB “knows, suspects, or has reason

to suspect” are suspicious. 10 A transaction is “suspicious” if an MSB “knows, suspects, or has reason

to suspect” the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part): (1) involves

funds derived from illegal activities, or is intended or conducted to disguise funds derived from illegal

activities; (2) is designed to evade the reporting or recordkeeping requirements of the BSA or

regulations implementing it; (3) has no business or apparent lawful purpose, and the MSB knows of

no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including

background and possible purpose of the transaction; or (4) involves the use of the MSB to facilitate




8
  31 U.S.C. § 5318(h); 31 C.F.R. § 1022.210(a).
9
  31 U.S.C. § 5318(h)(1); 31 C.F.R. § 1022.210(d), (e) (“A [MSB] must develop and implement an [AML] program that
complies with the requirements of this section on or before . . . the end of the 90-day period beginning on the day following
the date the business is established.”).
10
   31 U.S.C. § 5318(g); 31 C.F.R. § 1022.320.


                                                             3
criminal activity. 11 An MSB is generally required to file a SAR no later than 30 calendar days after

the initial detection by the MSB of the facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR. 12

 II.     STATEMENT OF FACTS

         The conduct described below took place from on or about February 3, 2015 through April 4,

2023 (the Relevant Time Period), unless otherwise indicated. 13

         A. FinCEN

         FinCEN is a bureau within the U.S. Department of the Treasury and is the federal authority

that enforces the BSA by investigating and imposing civil money penalties on financial institutions

and individuals for willful violations of the BSA. 14 As delegated by the Secretary of the Treasury,

FinCEN has “authority for the imposition of civil penalties” and “[o]verall authority for enforcement

and compliance” with the BSA and its implementing regulations. 15

         B. Paxful

         Throughout the Relevant Time Period, Paxful operated as an exchanger of convertible virtual

currencies (CVC), and operated both a hosted CVC wallet service and a marketplace that connected

peer-to-peer (P2P) buyers and sellers of CVC. Paxful is a Delaware corporation and, within the

Relevant Time Period, had a physical office location in New York City. During the Relevant Time

Period, Paxful conducted transactions in CVC and offered over 400 payment methods for trading




11
   31 C.F.R. § 1022.320(a)(2)(i)-(iv).
12
   31 C.F.R. § 1022.320(b)(3).
13
   Starting in April 2023, new owners and management took control of Paxful, replacing and removing the management
and ownership who were in place during the Relevant Time Period. References herein to Paxful’s “then-management
or leadership” are to individuals not employed by Paxful after the Relevant Time Period.
14
   31 U.S.C. § 5321(a). In civil enforcement of the BSA under 31 U.S.C. § 5321(a)(1), to establish that a financial
institution or individual acted willfully, the government need only show that the financial institution or individual acted
with either reckless disregard or willful blindness. The government need not show that the entity or individual had
knowledge that the conduct violated the BSA, or that the entity or individual otherwise acted with an improper motive or
bad purpose. Paxful admits to “willfulness” only as the term is used in civil enforcement of the BSA under 31 U.S.C. §
5321(a)(1).
15
   31 C.F.R. § 1010.810(a), (d).


                                                            4
CVC, ranging from prepaid access cards to bank transfers or cash-by-mail. Within the Relevant Time

Period, Paxful conducted transactions with over 4 million users, including over 50 million successful

trades on its platform worth several billion dollars in trade value across a range of products, including

CVC, prepaid access cards, and various fiat currencies. Additionally, during the Relevant Time

Period, Paxful’s hosted wallet service had millions of users.

        In addition to these transactions on Paxful’s platform, FinCEN’s investigation identified over

20 million external bitcoin transactions worth well over $10 billion to or from Paxful’s customer

accounts. On a weekly basis during the Relevant Time Period, Paxful processed tens of millions of

dollars’ worth of bitcoin deposits and withdrawals.

        During the Relevant Time Period, Paxful willfully failed to: (1) maintain its registration with

FinCEN; (2) implement an effective AML program; and (3) identify and timely report suspicious

activity. These violations caused significant harm to the U.S. financial system by allowing illicit

actors to use Paxful to conduct hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of transactions with suspicious

counterparties, including individuals from North Korea and Iran, ransomware attackers, and the

website Backpage.com—all without timely filing SARs.

        C. Paxful Failed to Register as an MSB

        The BSA and its implementing regulations require an MSB to register within 180 days of

beginning operations and the renewal of such registration every two years. 16

        In accordance with the BSA, Paxful initially registered with FinCEN on July 27, 2015, 174

days after launching its hosted wallet and P2P exchange business. Paxful was required to re-register

with FinCEN no later than December 31, 2016. 17 Paxful did not re-register with FinCEN until



16
  31 U.S.C. § 5330 and 31 C.F.R. § 1022.380(b)(2), (3).
17
  An MSB must renew its registration on or before the last day of the calendar year preceding the renewal period. 31
U.S.C. § 5330; 31 C.F.R. § 1022.380(b)(3).


                                                         5
September 3, 2019, despite continuing to act as a money transmitter at all times between January 1,

2017 and September 2, 2019. As such, Paxful operated as an unregistered MSB for 974 days in

violation of the requirement to register. Paxful’s former Chief Technology Officer later admitted to

allowing Paxful’s MSB registration to lapse while continuing to operate Paxful as a money transmitter

during this period. 18

           D. Paxful Failed to Develop, Implement, and Maintain an Effective AML Program

           Paxful willfully failed to develop, implement, and maintain an effective AML program.

Paxful failed to implement any written AML program until July 2019, more than four years after it

initially began business. The AML program remained deficient even after Paxful implemented one.

Throughout the Relevant Time Period, Paxful’s AML program violations spanned multiple pillars.

Paxful’s AML program did not provide for effective or timely review of transactions, failed to identify

significant customer red flags, and was not appropriately implemented by Paxful staff. Illicit actors

ranging from hostile nation states like Iran and North Korea to online services that facilitated child

sexual abuse material (CSAM) were able to exploit Paxful’s platform and the U.S. financial system

as a result of these deficiencies. Paxful failed to identify, and appropriately report, numerous other

types of illicit activity, including but not limited to incidents associated with the financing of

terrorism.

               1. Paxful Failed to Implement Policies, Procedures, and Internal Controls to Verify
                  Customer Identity

           Paxful failed to have any policies, procedures, and internal controls or a formal written AML

program until early 2019. Prior to such implementation, Paxful struggled to identify significant

volumes of potentially illicit activity on its platform. Failures continued after 2019, as the policies

Paxful established did not sufficiently account for the risks associated with its business lines.


18
     See Plea Agreement at A-1, United States of America. v. Artur Schaback, 2:24-cr-00072-KJM (E.D. Cal. July 8, 2024).


                                                            6
                         i.    Pre-February 2019

         Paxful’s lack of any “know your customer” (KYC) 19 processes before February 2019

contributed to the establishment and maintenance of relationships with high-risk customers that

conducted significant volumes of activity without appropriate risk mitigation. For example, Paxful

processed extensive transactions related to, and maintained a customer relationship with, the website

Backpage.com (Backpage), a now-disbanded website that, according to the U.S. Department of

Justice (DOJ), “earned hundreds of millions of dollars from facilitating prostitution and sex

trafficking, placing profits over the well-being and safety of the many thousands of women and

children who were victimized by its practices.” 20 Backpage operated as a website that charged

individuals to post advertisements that solicited customers to purchase goods and services. Many of

the advertisements published on Backpage depicted children who were victims of sex trafficking. 21

         Paxful not only lacked policies, procedures, or internal controls to identify high-risk customers

doing business on or through Backpage, but also actively solicited their business. Paxful’s social

media accounts advertised how Backpage customers could create accounts on Paxful to sell

advertisements on the Backpage platform. Paxful, through its P2P marketplace, allowed vendors

selling content on Backpage to receive both CVC and prepaid access cards as payments when selling

their content to buyers on Backpage. Paxful made statements to the media touting this relationship

as a business opportunity after credit card operators dropped Backpage. 22

         However, Paxful’s own employees questioned the relationship between Paxful and Backpage

as early as 2017, stating, “I’ve been trying to find everything about backpage.com today and now I



19
   KYC, or Know Your Customer, refers to the information that financial institutions collect from their customers to
document and understand basic information about the customer and its intended relationship with the financial institution.
20
   U.S. Dep’t of Justice, “Justice Department Leads Effort to Seize Backpage.Com, the Internet’s Leading Forum for
Prostitution Ads, and Obtains 93-Count Federal Indictment” (Apr. 9, 2018).
21
   Id.
22
   Brave New Coin, “Peer to Peer Bitcoin Exchange Reaps Reward of Backpage Fallout” (Aug. 12, 2015).


                                                            7
hope someone closes it down[.] [I]t’s disgusting trafficing [sic] children.” Paxful processed over 4

million transactions involving Backpage valued at over $24 million. Although Paxful was not

requiring KYC during this time, its records included usernames, email addresses, CVC wallet

addresses, and details of specific payments related to Backpage that should have raised red flags.

Nevertheless, Paxful did not file a single SAR on this activity, even after the government seized

Backpage in 2018. 23

        Backpage was only one of the high-risk merchants Paxful sought out. Paxful conducted over

$3.5 billion in CVC transactions prior to its implementation of any KYC policies, procedures, and

internal controls.

                       ii.   Post-February 2019

                 On February 15, 2019, Paxful announced new mandatory KYC requirements for its

users and those listing advertisements on the Company’s website. However, these controls were

deficient, applying only to users with activity that exceeded $1,500 without any controls to identify

users who sought to evade these controls by structuring transactions. These lax policies led to

customers choosing Paxful to take advantage of the inadequate KYC controls. For example, in a

September 2019 exchange on a social media site, several individuals referenced Paxful as a potential

P2P exchange to utilize instead of an alternate P2P trading site that had implemented more robust

KYC procedures. Then-Paxful employees advertised the lax policy and offered to “port [customer’s]

stats” to entice customers to switch from competitor exchanges. In total, Paxful processed billions in

CVC transactions alone from March 2019 through April 2023. During this same period, Paxful

experienced growth that at times exceeded 20% annually. 24



23
   U.S. Dep’t of Justice, “Justice Department Leads Effort to Seize Backpage.Com, the Internet’s Leading Forum for
Prostitution Ads, and Obtains 93-Count Federal Indictment” (Apr. 9, 2018).
24
   See Newswire.com, Paxful Hits $5 Billion Volume (last visited Aug. 4, 2025).


                                                        8
              2. Paxful Failed to Identify and Mitigate Risks Posed by Customers Conducting
                 Unregistered MSB Activity in its P2P Product

         Paxful’s AML program was required to be “commensurate with the risks posed by the location

and size of, and the nature and volume of the financial services” it provided. 25 However, Paxful’s

AML policies, procedures, and internal controls failed to cover critical elements of the services

offered by its P2P trading marketplace, such as the unique risks presented by certain types of

customers. For example, Paxful’s written AML program included provisions to collect and retain

customers’ FinCEN MSB registrations but, in practice, Paxful did not implement these provisions or

establish policies, procedures, and internal controls to identify unregistered MSB activity on its

platform. Even though Paxful identified the risks that could flow from smaller unregistered P2P

exchangers that used Paxful to engage in money transmission, Paxful did not implement policies,

procedures, or internal controls to ensure Paxful was not exploited by illicit actors through these

smaller exchangers. As discussed further below, Paxful also did not file SARs when required by the

BSA and its implementing regulations.

              3. Paxful Failed to Identify and Address Geographic Spoofing

         Paxful failed to implement effective policies, procedures, and internal controls to identify

when customers were using geographic spoofing (geo-spoofing) to hide the location from where they

were doing business, including using virtual private networks (VPNs). Further, Paxful failed to

implement any controls to review a customer’s geography, including through Internet Protocol (IP)

addresses. 26 Prior to January 2018, Paxful failed to implement any meaningful IP restrictions on


25
  31 C.F.R. § 1022.210(b).
26
  “Geo-spoofing” is the act of concealing a person’s true location by altering the Internet Protocol address to reflect that
the person is connecting to the internet from a different location. A VPN has the effect of “masking” a user’s true IP
address. Financial institutions often use IP addresses to determine the jurisdiction from which a user has accessed its
website or mobile application which can then be used as part of the financial institution’s “geofencing controls” to identify
and block or restrict access, including to support efforts by the financial institution to “ringfence” itself from certain
jurisdictions (e.g., higher risk jurisdictions or those in which it has elected to not obtain a license or register to do business).
However, such controls can be rendered ineffective as the result of VPN masking.


                                                                 9
customer activity, including for North Korea, Iran, Syria, and Cuba. 27 In fact, Paxful’s own

assessment of its activity identified over 1,500 accounts opened between May 2015 and August 2018

with Iranian, Syrian, Cuban, Crimean, or Sudanese IP addresses. Paxful’s ineffective geo-spoofing

controls also failed to identify tens of millions of users that logged in to its trading platform with U.S.

IP addresses, even though users were not located in the United States, including significant volumes

of users from Nigeria and China.

             4. Paxful Failed to Implement Policies, Procedures, and Internal Controls for
                Transaction Monitoring

        Paxful’s AML program did not adequately address specific risks associated with its different

products and services. Despite offering hundreds of ways to conduct transactions on Paxful, including

multiple types of CVC, Paxful failed to conduct transaction monitoring on the products and services

offered on the platform, which allowed the platform to be used to facilitate money laundering. Rather

than implement controls, Paxful’s then-senior leaders ignored employees raising potentially

suspicious or fraudulent transactions. When asked about what the platform would do to address such

issues, then-senior leadership told staff they were working on ways to address the issues, yet even

minimal transaction monitoring was not in place until at least 2018, more than three years after Paxful

began operating.

        Written transaction monitoring policies, procedures, and internal controls were not in place

prior to July 2019. As a result, all transactions conducted on Paxful, in fiat currency, CVC, or prepaid

access cards were not appropriately reviewed for potentially suspicious activity before then.

Additionally, the July 2019 procedures did not adequately address all of Paxful’s products and



27
   See, e.g., FinCEN, Imposition of Fifth Special Measure Against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea as a
Jurisdiction of Primary Money Laundering Concern, 81 Fed. Reg. 78,715 (Nov. 9, 2016) (codified at 31 C.F.R §
1010.659); see also FinCEN, Imposition of Fifth Special Measure Against the Islamic Republic of Iran as a Jurisdiction
of Primary Money Laundering Concern, 84 Fed. Reg. 59,302 (Nov. 4, 2019) (codified at 31 C.F.R. § 1010.661).


                                                         10
services, and left significant gaps in reviewing transactions made in prepaid access cards. Paxful

acquired additional blockchain analytic tools in March 2020, but omitted coverage for several CVCs

offered on its platform, meaning Paxful continued to fail to appropriately monitor all of the CVC

offered on its platform. Paxful had no ability to identify and report suspicious activity within the

significant volume of transactions in over 15 CVCs, including Dogecoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Tron,

and Tether, throughout the Relevant Time Period.

               5. Paxful Failed to Effectively Monitor Prepaid Access Transactions

           MSBs like Paxful must implement policies, procedures, and internal controls that cover the

products and services offered to customers. 28 In addition to material gaps in Paxful’s ability to

monitor CVC activity, Paxful further failed to implement appropriate policies, procedures, and

internal controls to meaningfully monitor and report illicit activity taking place in its prepaid access

sales across its platform. 29 This was a substantial portion of Paxful’s overall business activity during

the Relevant Time Period. For example, from May 2015 through December 2019, the top payment

methods through Paxful were iTunes and Amazon prepaid access cards, constituting over $1.7 billion

in value transmitted through Paxful. In 2020, trades where users converted CVC to prepaid access

cards constituted over half the total bitcoin volume traded on the platform, or around $20 million

worth of transactions per week. Paxful prioritized development of the prepaid access market even

though it knew illicit actors were exploiting it. For example, in an exchange with an individual from

Ghana who purported to offer explicit images in exchange for prepaid access cards, a then-member




28
     31 C.F.R. § 1022.210(d)(1).
29
     31 C.F.R. § 1022.210(d)(1)(i)(A) and (B).


                                                   11
of Paxful’s management team told other Paxful employees that they “told her about Paxful so she

could sell her scammed itunes cards lol.” Paxful began to remediate these deficiencies in April 2023.

               6. Paxful’s North Korean, Iranian, and Terrorist Finance Transactions

           Paxful’s failure to implement policies, procedures, and internal controls to verify customer

identity and appropriately monitor transactions directly contributed to Paxful facilitating transactions

with hostile nation-states and state-sponsored cyber criminals from Iran and North Korea.

           Paxful processed transactions with individuals associated with the Lazarus Group, a North

Korean state-sponsored cyber-criminal group that Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control

(OFAC) designated for malicious cyber activity on critical infrastructure. 30 Paxful took no action

even after receiving law enforcement inquiries related to this activity. Yinyin Tian (Tian), a member

of the Lazarus Group, conducted thousands of trades on Paxful’s platform between October 2017 and

November 2018. These high-risk transactions involved converting CVC sales to Apple iTunes

prepaid access cards while frequently moving money between various jurisdictions on the Paxful

platform, including between the United States, China, and Hong Kong. Paxful subsequently received

law enforcement inquiries in December 2018 and October 2019 related to the more than $1.4 million

Tian ultimately moved through his account. At the very least, such contact by law enforcement should

have alerted Paxful that additional due diligence for this particular customer and his transactions was

required. Nonetheless, only in May 2020—two months after Tian’s bitcoin address was listed as an

attribute on OFAC’s Specially-Designated Nationals (SDN) list—did Paxful take any action.

           In a separate example also involving Paxful’s P2P marketplace, FinCEN’s investigation

identified several transactions taking place on Paxful’s platform within a 24-hour period where a

buyer and seller exchanged bitcoin for North Korean won. The offer terms advertised on Paxful



30
     U.S. Dep’t of the Treasury, “Treasury Sanctions North Korean State-Sponsored Cyber Groups” (Sept. 13, 2019).


                                                           12
explicitly offered BTC to PayPal in North Korean won. North Korea is subject to comprehensive U.S.

economic and trade sanctions and is a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern. 31 Further,

the receiving party in these transactions switched jurisdictions multiple times in the span of hours and

sometimes minutes for each trade, indicating use of a VPN to obfuscate their location. Despite these

clear red flags, Paxful’s inadequate transaction monitoring resulted in the failure to identify or report

this activity.

        Paxful’s ineffective policies, procedures, and controls also led to additional transactions with

Iranian individuals who were eventually designated by OFAC.                       Paxful conducted dozens of

transactions with EnExchanger and Iranvisacart. 32 Transactions with these users bore clear indicia

of suspicion from taking place in Iran (including IP information and the use of the name “Iranvisacart”

in advertisements), operating as unregistered P2P exchangers, and having significant exposure to

CVC wallets associated with ransomware proceeds illicitly obtained by Iranian hacking groups.

Paxful took no action even after OFAC’s designations.

        Paxful’s failures also resulted in other illicit activity going unmonitored or reported. Multiple

fundraisers by groups designated by the United States as Foreign Terrorist Organizations received

payments from Paxful customers. For example, Paxful permitted transactions as part of a fundraising

campaign for al-Qaeda in January 2019. On October 8, 1999, the United States Secretary of State

designated al-Qaeda as a Foreign Terrorist Organization under Section 219 of the Immigration and

Nationality Act and it was later designated in September 2001 as a Specially Designated Global

Terrorist pursuant to Executive Order 13224.




31
   See FinCEN, Imposition of Fifth Special Measure Against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea as a Jurisdiction
of Primary Money Laundering Concern, 81 Fed. Reg. 78,715 (Nov. 9, 2016) (codified at 31 C.F.R. § 1010.659); see also
OFAC, North Korea Sanctions Program, (Nov. 2, 2016).
32
   See U.S. Dep’t of the Treasury, “Cyber-related Designations; Publication of New Cyber-related FAQs” (Nov. 28, 2018)
(designating individuals with the aliases “EnExchanger” and “Iranvisacart”).


                                                         13
              7. Compliance Officer

         An MSB is required to designate a person to assure day-to-day compliance with its compliance

program and the BSA. This person is responsible for assuring that the MSB files reports and creates

and retains records, as well as ensuring that the compliance program is updated as necessary to reflect

the current requirements of the BSA and provides appropriate training. 33

         From the beginning of its operations through 2018, Paxful operated without a qualified

individual to assure day-to-day compliance with the BSA. Paxful listed its then-CEO as the chief

compliance officer during this time period.       However, the former CEO never received any

BSA/AML-specific training or had the appropriate experience to meet the compliance obligations

under the BSA. Indeed, Paxful had egregious lapses in compliance while the former CEO held this

role, allowing the company’s FinCEN registration to lapse, failing to implement even a rudimentary

AML program that required it to conduct KYC on its users, and filing no SARs.

              8. Independent Testing

         An MSB must provide for independent review to monitor and maintain an adequate

program. 34 The scope and frequency of the review shall be commensurate with the risk of the

financial services provided by the MSB. 35 During the Relevant Time Period, Paxful conducted only

a single independent test, a frequency of testing that is not even remotely commensurate with the

volume of transactions processed or risks associated with the products and services offered by Paxful.

Appropriate independent testing performed on a recurring basis would have identified AML program

gaps and potentially suspicious transactions that went unreported.




33
   31 C.F.R. § 1022.210(d)(2)(i)-(iii).
34
   31 C.F.R. § 1022.210(d)(4).
35
   Id.


                                                  14
       E. Paxful Failed to File Suspicious Activity Reports

       FinCEN identified hundreds of suspicious transactions for which Paxful failed to timely and

accurately file a SAR. Paxful facilitated transactions involving over $500 million in suspicious

activity associated with ransomware attacks, darknet and other illicit marketplaces, unregistered

MSBs, including unregistered CVC mixing services, CSAM, elderly financial exploitation,

individuals later listed on OFAC’s SDN list, terrorist financing, high-risk jurisdictions, and stolen

funds or other illicit proceeds. Paxful leadership refused to improve the Company’s SAR reporting

for years, even instructing employees not to file SARs on suspicious activity. Paxful never filed a

single SAR with FinCEN until November 2019, and even after November 2019, Paxful’s SAR filing

deficiencies continued.

           1. Ransomware Attack Proceeds

       Ransomware is malicious software that restricts the victim’s access to a computer in exchange

for a specified ransom, usually paid in bitcoin. If the specified ransom is not paid, the victim may be

threatened with the loss or exposure of their personal data, such as account numbers and social

security numbers. Ransomware perpetrators have targeted U.S. hospitals, schools, and other vital

public services in addition to U.S. businesses.

       Paxful CVC wallet addresses interacted directly with over 26 different strains of ransomware.

These included transactions associated with SamSam, Trickbot, BitLocker, Phobos, Crysis-Dharma,

and BitPaymer. Gaps in Paxful’s controls and policies resulted in it interacting with hundreds of

thousands of dollars of CVC addresses in hundreds of transactions associated with ransomware, on

which Paxful failed to timely and accurately file SARs.




                                                  15
            2. Child Exploitation Marketplaces

        Paxful wallets facilitated hundreds of transactions with child exploitation-associated

addresses. The marketplaces involved in the transactions included marketplaces dealing CSAM, such

as Backpage, Welcome to Video, Dark Scandals, and several other known purveyors of CSAM.

Welcome to Video was a marketplace hosted on the Darknet that exclusively advertised child sexual

exploitation videos available for download by members of the site. Welcome to Video contained

over 250,000 unique videos and had at least one million users. Paxful processed nearly 100

transactions with Welcome to Video related to more than 50 accounts that Paxful maintained for

Welcome to Video customers over more than two years before the marketplace was shut down by

law enforcement in early 2018. 36 Paxful’s failure to perform basic customer verification or sufficient

transaction monitoring meant that no additional scrutiny was applied to these transactions, and,

therefore, Paxful failed to timely file SARs despite the obvious suspicious nature of the activity.

Similarly, Paxful did not timely and accurately file SARs on several other known child exploitation-

associated transactions within the required timeframe.

            3. Darknet and other Illicit Markets

        Paxful facilitated tens of millions of dollars with darknet or other illicit marketplace-

associated addresses. Such markets facilitate the purchase and sale of illegal narcotics and controlled

substances, drug paraphernalia, counterfeit and fraud-related goods and services, and other illegal

contraband. This included millions of dollars’ worth of value in direct transactions with prolific

darknet marketplace AlphaBay, later seized by the DOJ. 37 Paxful failed to file hundreds of SARs for

these and other illicit marketplace-associated transactions in a timely manner.



36
   U.S. Dep’t of Justice, “South Korean National and Hundreds of Others Charged Worldwide in the Takedown of the
Largest Darknet Child Pornography Website, Which was Funded by Bitcoin” (Oct. 16, 2019).
37
   U.S. Dep’t of Justice, “AlphaBay, the Largest Online ‘Dark Market,’ Shut Down” (July 20, 2017).


                                                      16
           4. Convertible Virtual Currency Mixing Services

       Illicit actors can use CVC mixers—which anonymize CVC addresses and obscure CVC

transactions by weaving together inflows and outflows from many different users—to launder illicit

proceeds and disrupt the ability to trace CVC transactions. Darknet marketplaces actively promote

mixers as the primary method for obfuscating bitcoin transactions. Paxful addresses interacted with

at least 13 unregistered CVC mixing services during the Relevant Time Period, including Helix

against which FinCEN assessed a $60 million civil penalty in 2020 for BSA violations. 38 Paxful did

not identify and report any of the underlying transactions as suspicious despite the known red flags

associated with these services. Paxful wallets facilitated the transfer of the equivalent value of over

$35 million to and from unregistered CVC mixing services without filing any timely SARs.

           5. Transactions with Individuals and Financial Institutions in Iran, North Korea,
              and Venezuela

       Paxful facilitated direct transactions with parties later added to the SDN list, including

EnExchanger, Iranvisacart, and Tian. Each of these entities bore indicia of suspicion even prior to

their respective designations by OFAC. Paxful allowed these entities to conduct multiple transactions

over extended periods in equivalent values exceeding $1 million. Paxful failed to timely file SARs

on this activity, even after these entities were listed on OFAC’s SDN list.

       Further, Paxful failed to file SARs on large sums of value being transmitted to and from

exchanges operating in high-risk jurisdictions subject to both comprehensive and specific economic

sanctions by U.S. government regulations. Paxful addresses interacted with 16 virtual asset service

providers that were publicly operating from Iran and Venezuela. Paxful wallets facilitated the transfer




38
  In the matter of Larry Dean Harmon d/b/a Helix, Number 2020-2 (FinCEN Oct. 19, 2020) (assessment of civil
monetary penalty).


                                                    17
of over $3 million to and from these virtual asset service providers. Paxful clients were also allowed

to trade in Venezuelan “Petro” CVC. 39 Paxful failed to file timely SARs on any of these transactions.

             6. Alleged Stolen Funds and other Illicit Proceeds

     Paxful accepted and transmitted CVC with wallets containing the proceeds of various acts of

cybercrime. CVC passed through Paxful from these cybercriminal wallets holding value from large-

scale elder exploitation, stolen credit card information forums, fraudulent crypto investment scams,

and other criminal organizations. Paxful failed to file any timely SARs on such transactions.

        Paxful maintained accounts for, and actively solicited business from, Mayrodi Mundial

Moneybox (MMM) as early as 2017. MMM was a Russia-based Ponzi scheme that financially

defrauded millions of people in the 1990s, and after its founder was released from Russian prison in

2011, relaunched as a CVC-only platform focused on the developing world, including in Nigeria in

2015. Paxful employees were aware of the MMM Ponzi scheme, describing it internally as a “shady”

financial pyramid scheme, but nevertheless openly discussed how to drive MMM customers to

Paxful. Paxful believed that if negotiations went well, “we will have our new [B]ackpage.” Paxful

failed to file timely SARs on any of this activity.

        Black Axe was a fraud and money laundering ring that often used romance scams to exploit

widowed or divorced elderly women financially. 40 Over more than three years—including roughly

a year after the DOJ indicted one of the founders—Black Axe conducted over $620 million in

transfers via bitcoin, gift cards, and wire transmissions through Paxful. The volume, location,

frequency, and amount of these transactions over a significant period afforded Paxful multiple

opportunities to identify and report the hundreds of millions of dollars of Black Axe transactions


39
   See Taking Additional Steps to Address the Situation in Venezuela (Executive Order 13827), 83 Fed. Reg. 12,469 (Mar.
21, 2018) (prohibiting transactions in “Petro”).
40
   U.S. Dep’t of Justice, “Organizer Of Complex Nigerian Fraud And Money Laundering Ring Sentenced” (Oct. 17,
2019).


                                                          18
taking place on Paxful for over three years; nevertheless, Paxful failed to file any timely SARs on this

activity.

III.     VIOLATIONS

         FinCEN has determined that Paxful willfully violated the BSA and its implementing

regulations during the Relevant Time Period. 41 Specifically, FinCEN has determined that Paxful

willfully failed to register as an MSB with FinCEN in violation of 31 U.S.C. § 5330 and 31 C.F.R. §

1022.380. Further, Paxful failed to develop, implement, and maintain an effective AML program that

was reasonably designed to prevent its trading platform and hosted wallet service from being used to

facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities in violation of 31 U.S.C. §

5318(h)(1) and 31 C.F.R. § 1022.210. Additionally, FinCEN has determined that Paxful willfully

failed to accurately, and timely, report suspicious transactions to FinCEN, in violation of 31 U.S.C.

§ 5318(g)(1) and 31 C.F.R. § 1022.320.

IV.      ENFORCEMENT FACTORS

         As summarized below, FinCEN considered all factors outlined in the Statement on

Enforcement of the Bank Secrecy Act issued August 18, 2020, when deciding whether to impose a

civil money penalty in this matter. 42

1. Nature and seriousness of the violations, including extent of possible harm to the public and

      the amounts involved: Paxful’s violations of the BSA and its implementing regulations were

      egregious and caused extensive possible harm to the public. For a number of years, Paxful

      disregarded its AML obligations and took no steps to detect, deter, and report suspicious or illicit


41
   To establish that a financial institution acted willfully, the government need only show that the financial institution or
individual acted with either reckless disregard or willful blindness. The government need not show that the entity or
individual had knowledge that the conduct violated the BSA, or that the entity or individual otherwise acted with an
improper motive or bad purpose.
42
   FinCEN, “Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) Statement on Enforcement of the Bank Secrecy Act,”
(Aug. 18, 2020).



                                                            19
   activity occurring on its platform. Paxful’s subsequent efforts for the remainder of the Relevant

   Time Period were woefully inadequate, not based on the illicit finance risks of its business and,

   in some instances, could easily be circumvented by users. Paxful’s failure to implement and

   maintain an effective AML program occurred despite the presence of numerous and repeated

   AML-related warning signs regarding specific customers or financial products. Personnel across

   various levels of the Company were complicit in these violations over the period in which the

   violations occurred. As a result, and based on available information, FinCEN identified thousands

   of potentially suspicious transactions Paxful processed that involved alleged narcotics sales,

   fraud, sex trafficking, child exploitation, sanctions evasion, ransomware attacks, and unregistered

   mixing services, none of which were timely or accurately reported to FinCEN. These substantial

   failures deprived law enforcement and national security agencies of crucial reporting and

   caused—and in some cases may have prolonged—public harm by allowing bad actors to avoid

   detection.

2. Impact or harm of the violations on FinCEN’s mission to safeguard the financial system

   from illicit use, combat money laundering, and promote national security: From 2015 to

   2019, Paxful did not have effective policies and procedures to detect and report suspicious

   activity. Paxful failed to conduct even minimal suspicious activity monitoring during this time,

   making it difficult to ascertain the complete number of specific reporting violations that exist.

   FinCEN identified hundreds of instances where Paxful should have filed a SAR. By denying this

   information to law enforcement agencies and financial regulators, Paxful had a detrimental impact

   on FinCEN’s mission and withheld critical reporting pertaining to the DPRK, Iran, CSAM,

   ransomware, and other national security priorities.




                                                 20
3. Pervasiveness of wrongdoing within an entity, including management’s complicity in,

   condoning or enabling of, or knowledge of the conduct underlying the violation: Paxful’s

   failures to comply with FinCEN’s regulations appear to have been the result of a culture of non-

   compliance throughout the Company for much of the Relevant Time Period. By no later than

   July 2015, Paxful’s leadership, including the former CEO, demonstrated actual knowledge of their

   obligations under the BSA, including by registering with FinCEN. Nevertheless, the Company

   failed to comply with these obligations for more than three years, and, in several instances,

   solicited or engaged in business with high-risk customers and financial products. During this

   time, senior officials, including the former CEO, actively sought a business relationship with

   Backpage or acknowledged the risks of fraud associated with the gift card exchange without

   taking any steps to mitigate these risks or monitor and report instances of suspicious activity.

4. History of similar violations or misconduct in general, including prior criminal, civil, and

   regulatory enforcement actions: FinCEN is not aware of any prior criminal, civil, or regulatory

   enforcement action taken against Paxful. However, Paxful experienced significant and prolonged

   deficiencies in its compliance with the BSA and 31 C.F.R. Chapter X during the entire course of

   its operation as a financial institution, with Paxful introducing only modest and inadequate

   changes more than three years after its initial launch.

5. Financial gain or other benefit resulting from, or attributable to, the violation: For years,

   Paxful did not appropriately resource compliance with its AML requirements despite processing

   billions of dollars’ worth of transactions. As a result, the Company’s growth was fueled in part

   through facilitating transactions made by potentially suspicious activity, including transactions

   with high-risk jurisdictions and exposure to high-risk counterparties like darknet markets and




                                                  21
   unregistered MSBs. Paxful operated without appropriate compliance personnel, training, and

   policies and procedures in place for at least four years.

6. Presence or absence of prompt, effective action to terminate the violations upon discovery,

   including self-initiated remedial measures: From its initial operations through 2019, Paxful

   had few, if any, controls in place to mitigate Paxful’s exposure to money laundering and terrorist

   finance. Starting in early 2019, Paxful began taking certain steps to implement an effective AML

   program and comply with the BSA and FinCEN’s regulations. However, even after Paxful

   commenced these modest efforts, it took several years to fully address many of the issues

   identified by FinCEN’s investigation, including controls necessary for the timely and accurate

   filing of SARs. Many of these changes took place only after the replacement of senior leadership

   in April 2023. Since April 2023, Paxful has engaged with independent consultants to review a

   backlog of potentially suspicious transactions, resulting in the filing of thousands of SARs for

   transactions that took place during the Relevant Time Period.

7. Timely and voluntary disclosure of the violations to FinCEN: Paxful did not voluntarily self-

   disclose the violations described above to FinCEN.

8. Quality and extent of cooperation with FinCEN and other relevant agencies, including as to

   potential wrongdoing by its directors, officers, employees, agents, and counterparties:

   Paxful was forthcoming with FinCEN during its investigation, including by making complete and

   timely productions in response to FinCEN’s information requests. Paxful also agreed to toll the

   statute of limitations during FinCEN’s investigation. Paxful provided follow-up information to

   FinCEN throughout the course of negotiations on steps taken to remediate deficiencies identified

   during the Relevant Time Period.




                                                  22
9. Systemic Nature of the Violations. Considerations include, but are not limited to, the

       number and extent of violations, failure rates (e.g., the number of violations out of total

       number of transactions), and duration of violations: Paxful did not develop, implement, and

       maintain an effective AML program reasonably designed to prevent its platform from processing

       illicit activity. Although the Company registered as an MSB with FinCEN in 2015, it failed to

       implement even basic steps to comply with its AML regulations until 2019. The violations at

       issue continued to persist over an extended period and involved multiple products and services,

       rather than a specific business unit or customer group. The Company’s compliance failures and

       shortcomings were structural in nature, and various personnel demonstrated actual knowledge of

       such issues, yet Paxful failed to remedy these deficiencies for many years.

10. Whether another agency took enforcement action for related activity. FinCEN will consider

       the amount of any fine, penalty, forfeiture, and/or remedial action ordered: Following a

       separate but parallel investigation, Paxful has agreed to pay $4 million to the DOJ.

 V.        CIVIL PENALTY

       A. Legal Background

           FinCEN may impose a Civil Money Penalty of $5,000 per day for willful violations of the

requirement to register as an MSB occurring on or before November 2, 2015, and $10,556 per day

for violations occurring after that date. 43

           FinCEN may impose a Civil Money Penalty of $25,000 per day for willful violations of the

requirement to implement and maintain an effective AML program occurring on or before November

2, 2015, and $71,545 per day for violations occurring after that date. 44




43
     31 U.S.C. § 5330(e); 31 C.F.R. § 1010.821.
44
     31 U.S.C. § 5321(a)(1); 31 C.F.R. § 1010.821.


                                                     23
           For each willful violation of a SAR reporting requirement, FinCEN may impose a Civil

Money Penalty not to exceed the greater of the amount involved in the transaction (originally capped

at $100,000) or $25,000. The former limit increased to $286,184, while the latter increased to

$71,545, for violations occurring after November 2, 2015. 45

       B. Civil Penalty Determination

           After considering all the facts and circumstances, as well as the enforcement factors discussed

above, FinCEN has determined to impose a Civil Money Penalty of $3.5 million in this matter.

FinCEN has agreed to credit against the $3.5 million Civil Penalty payment of $1.75 million to the

DOJ. Accordingly, Paxful shall make a payment for the Civil Money Penalty of $1.75 million to the

U.S. Department of the Treasury pursuant to the payment instructions that will be transmitted to

Paxful upon execution of this Consent Order.

VI.        CONSENT AND ADMISSIONS

           To resolve this matter and only for that purpose, Paxful admits to the Statement of Facts and

Violations set forth in this Consent Order and admits that it willfully violated the BSA and its

implementing regulations. Paxful consents to the use of the Statement of Facts, and any other

findings, determinations, and conclusions of law set forth in this Consent Order in any other

proceeding brought by or on behalf of FinCEN, or to which FinCEN is a party or claimant, and agrees

they shall be taken as true and correct and be given preclusive effect without any further proof. Paxful

understands and agrees that in any administrative or judicial proceeding brought by or on behalf of

FinCEN against it, including any proceeding to enforce the Civil Money Penalty imposed by this

Consent Order or for any equitable remedies under the BSA, Paxful shall be precluded from disputing

any fact or contesting any determinations set forth in this Consent Order.



45
     31 U.S.C. § 5321(a)(1).


                                                     24
           To resolve this matter, Paxful agrees to and consents to the issuance of this Consent Order

and all terms herein and agrees to make a payment of $1.75 million pursuant to the payment

instructions that will be transmitted to Paxful upon execution of this Consent Order. If timely

payment is not made, Paxful agrees that interest, penalties, and administrative costs will accrue. 46

           Paxful understands and agrees that it must treat the Civil Money Penalty paid under this

Consent Order as a penalty paid to the government and may not claim, assert, or apply for a tax

deduction, tax credit, or any other tax benefit for any payments made to satisfy the Civil Money

Penalty. Paxful understands and agrees that any acceptance by or on behalf of FinCEN of any partial

payment of the Civil Money Penalty obligation will not be deemed a waiver of Paxful’s obligation to

make further payments pursuant to this Consent Order, or a waiver of FinCEN’s right to seek to

compel payment of any amount assessed under the terms of this Consent Order, including any

applicable interest, penalties, or other administrative costs.

           Paxful affirms that it agrees to and approves this Consent Order and all terms herein freely

and voluntarily and that no offers, promises, or inducements of any nature whatsoever have been

made by FinCEN or any employee, agent, or representative of FinCEN to induce Paxful to agree to

or approve this Consent Order, except as specified in this Consent Order.

           Paxful understands and agrees that this Consent Order implements and embodies the entire

agreement between Paxful and FinCEN, and its terms relate only to this enforcement matter and any

related proceeding and the facts and determinations contained herein. Paxful further understands and

agrees that there are no express or implied promises, representations, or agreements between Paxful

and FinCEN other than those expressly set forth or referred to in this Consent Order and that nothing




46
     31 U.S.C. § 3717; 31 C.F.R. § 901.9.



                                                    25
in this Consent Order is binding on any other law enforcement or regulatory agency or any other

governmental authority, whether foreign, Federal, State, or local.

        Paxful understands and agrees that nothing in this Consent Order may be construed as

allowing Paxful, its subsidiaries, affiliates, Board, officers, employees, or agents to violate any law,

rule, or regulation.

        Paxful consents to the continued jurisdiction of the courts of the United States over it and

waives any defense based on lack of personal jurisdiction or improper venue in any action to enforce

the terms and conditions of this Consent Order or for any other purpose relevant to this enforcement

action. Solely in connection with an action filed by or on behalf of FinCEN to enforce this Consent

Order or for any other purpose relevant to this action, Paxful authorizes and agrees to accept all service

of process and filings through the Notification procedures below and to waive formal service of

process.

VII.    COOPERATION

        Paxful shall fully cooperate with FinCEN in any and all matters within the scope of or related

to the Statement of Facts, including any investigation of its current or former directors, officers,

employees, agents, consultants, or any other party. Paxful understands that its cooperation pursuant

to this paragraph shall include, but is not limited to, truthfully disclosing all factual information with

respect to its activities, and those of its present and former directors, officers, employees, agents, and

consultants. This obligation includes providing to FinCEN, upon request, any document, record or

other tangible evidence about which FinCEN may inquire of Paxful. Paxful’s cooperation pursuant

to this paragraph is subject to applicable laws and regulations, as well as valid and properly

documented claims of attorney-client privilege or the attorney work product doctrine.




                                                   26
VIII.   RELEASE

        Execution of this Consent Order, and compliance with all of the terms of this Consent Order,

 settles all claims that FinCEN may have against Paxful for the conduct described in this Consent

 Order during the Relevant Time Period. Execution of this Consent Order, and compliance with the

 terms of this Consent Order, does not release any claim that FinCEN may have for conduct by Paxful

 other than the conduct described in this Consent Order during the Relevant Time Period, or any claim

 that FinCEN may have against any current or former director, officer, owner, or employee of Paxful,

 or any other individual or entity other than those named in this Consent Order. In addition, this

 Consent Order does not release any claim or provide any other protection in any investigation,

 enforcement action, penalty assessment, or injunction relating to any conduct that occurs after the

 Relevant Time Period as described in this Consent Order.

 IX.    WAIVERS

        Nothing in this Consent Order shall preclude any proceedings brought by, or on behalf of,

 FinCEN to enforce the terms of this Consent Order, nor shall it constitute a waiver of any right, power,

 or authority of any other representative of the United States or agencies thereof, including but not

 limited to the Department of Justice.

        In consenting to and approving this Consent Order, Paxful stipulates to the terms of this

 Consent Order and waives:

        A. Any and all defenses to this Consent Order, the Civil Money Penalty imposed by

            this Consent Order, and any action taken by or on behalf of FinCEN that can be

            waived, including any statute of limitations or other defense based on the passage

            of time;




                                                   27
       B. Any and all claims that FinCEN lacks jurisdiction over all matters set forth in this

           Consent Order, lacks the authority to issue this Consent Order or to impose the

           Civil Money Penalty, or lacks authority for any other action or proceeding related

           to the matters set forth in this Consent Order;

       C. Any and all claims that this Consent Order, any term of this Consent Order, the

           Civil Money Penalty, or compliance with this Consent Order, or the Civil Money

           Penalty, is in any way unlawful or violates the Constitution of the United States

           of America or any provision thereof;

       D. Any and all rights to judicial review, appeal or reconsideration, or to seek in any

           way to contest the validity of this Consent Order, any term of this Consent Order,

           or the Civil Money Penalty arising from this Consent Order;

       E. Any and all claims that this Consent Order does not have full force and effect, or

           cannot be enforced in any proceeding, due to changed circumstances, including

           any change in law;

       F. Any and all claims for fees, costs, or expenses related in any way to this

           enforcement matter, Consent Order, or any related administative action, whether

           arising under common law or under the terms of any statute, including, but not

           limited to, under the Equal Access to Justice Act. Paxful agrees to bear its own

           costs and attorneys’ fees.

 X.    VIOLATIONS OF THIS CONSENT ORDER

       Determination of whether Paxful has failed to comply with this Consent Order, or any portion

thereof, and whether to pursue any further action or relief against Paxful shall be in FinCEN’s sole

discretion. If FinCEN determines, in its sole discretion, that a failure to comply with this Consent




                                                  28
Order, or any portion thereof, has occurred, or that Paxful has made any misrepresentations to

FinCEN or any other government agency related to the underlying enforcement matter, FinCEN may

void any and all releases or waivers contained in this Consent Order; reinstitute administrative

proceedings; take any additional action that it deems appropriate; and pursue any and all violations,

maximum penalties, injunctive relief, or other relief that FinCEN deems appropriate. FinCEN may

take any such action even if it did not take such action against Paxful in this Consent Order and

notwithstanding the releases and waivers herein. In the event FinCEN takes such action under this

paragraph, Paxful specifically agrees to toll any applicable statute of limitations and to waive any

defenses based on a statute of limitations or the passage of time that may be applicable to the

Statement of Facts in this Consent Order, until a date 180 days following Paxful’s receipt of notice

of FinCEN’s determination that a misrepresentation or breach of this agreement has occurred, except

as to claims already time barred as of the Effective Date of this Consent Order.

       In the event that FinCEN determines that Paxful has made a misrepresentation or failed to

comply with this Consent Order, or any portion thereof, all statements made by or on behalf of Paxful

to FinCEN, including the Statement of Facts, whether prior or subsequent to this Consent Order, will

be admissible in evidence in any and all proceedings brought by or on behalf of FinCEN. Paxful

agrees that it will not assert any claim under the Constitution of the United States of America, Rule

408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, or any other law or federal rule that any such statements should

be suppressed or are otherwise inadmissible. Such statements shall be treated as binding admissions,

and Paxful agrees that it shall be precluded from disputing or contesting any such statements. FinCEN

shall have sole discretion over the decision to impute conduct or statements of any director, officer,

employee, agent, or any person or entity acting on behalf of, or at the direction of Paxful in

determining whether Paxful has violated any provision of this Consent Order.




                                                 29
 XI.    PUBLIC STATEMENTS

        Paxful agrees that it shall not, nor shall its attorneys, agents, partners, directors, officers,

 employees, affiliates, or any other person authorized to speak on its behalf or within its authority or

 control, take any action or make any public statement, directly or indirectly, contradicting its

 admissions and acceptance of responsibility or any terms of this Consent Order, including any fact

 finding, determination, or conclusion of law in this Consent Order.

        FinCEN shall have sole discretion to determine whether any action or statement made by

 Paxful, or by any person under the authority, control, or speaking on behalf of Paxful contradicts this

 Consent Order, and whether Paxful has repudiated such statement.

XII.    RECORD RETENTION

        In addition to any other record retention required under applicable law, Paxful agrees to retain

 all documents and records required to be prepared or recorded under this Consent Order or otherwise

 necessary to demonstrate full compliance with each provision of this Consent Order, including

 supporting data and documentation. Paxful agrees to retain these records for a period of 6 years after

 creation of the record, unless required to retain them for a longer period of time under applicable law.

XIII.   SEVERABILITY

        Paxful agrees that if a court of competent jurisdiction considers any of the provisions of this

 Consent Order unenforceable, such unenforceability does not render the entire Consent Order

 unenforceable. Rather, the entire Consent Order will be construed as if not containing the particular

 unenforceable provision(s), and the rights and obligations of FinCEN and Paxful shall be construed

 and enforced accordingly.




                                                   30
XIV.    SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS

        Paxful agrees that the provisions of this Consent Order are binding on its owners, officers,

 employees, agents, representatives, affiliates, successors, assigns, and transferees to whom Paxful

 agrees to provide a copy of the executed Consent Order. Should Paxful seek to sell, merge, transfer,

 or assign its operations, or any portion thereof, that are the subject of this Consent Order, Paxful must,

 as a condition of sale, merger, transfer, or assignment obtain the written agreement of the buyer,

 merging entity, transferee, or assignee to comply with this Consent Order.

 XV.    MODIFICATIONS AND HEADINGS

        This Consent Order can only be modified with the express written consent of FinCEN and

 Paxful. The headings in this Consent Order are inserted for convenience only and are not intended to

 affect the meaning or interpretation of this Consent Order or its individual terms.

XVI.    AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE

        Paxful’s representative, by consenting to and approving this Consent Order, hereby represents

 and warrants that the representative has full power and authority to consent to and approve this

 Consent Order for and on behalf of Paxful, and further represents and warrants that Paxful agrees to

 be bound by the terms and conditions of this Consent Order.

XVII.   NOTIFICATION

        Unless otherwise specified herein, whenever notifications, submissions, or communications

 are required by this Consent Order, they shall be made in writing and sent via first-class mail and

 simultaneous email, addressed as follows:

                To FinCEN:      Associate Director, Enforcement and Compliance Division, Financial
                                Crimes Enforcement Network, P.O. Box 39, Vienna, Virginia 22183

                To Paxful:      Esseks Ingoglia, 350 Fifth Avenue, Suite 5200
                                New York, New York 10118




                                                    31
         Notices submitted pursuant to this paragraph will be deemed effective upon receipt unless

  otherwise provided in this Consent Order or approved by FinCEN in writing.

XVIII.   COUNTERPARTS

         This Consent Order may be signed in counterpart and electronically. Each counterpart, when

  executed and delivered, shall be an original, and all of the counterparts together shall constitute one

  and the same fully executed instrument.

 XIX.    EFFECTIVE DATE AND CALCULATION OF TIME

         This Consent Order shall be effective upon the date signed by FinCEN. Calculation of

  deadlines and other time limitations set forth herein shall run from the effective date (excluding the

  effective date in the calculation) and be based on calendar days, unless otherwise noted, including

  intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.



         By Order of the Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.



                                /s/
                                Andrea Gacki                   Date: December 9, 2025
                                Director




         Consented to and Approved By:



         /s/
         Roshan Dharia
         Paxful, Inc.
         Paxful USA, Inc.




                                                    32
