FDA Briefing Document

      Pharmacy Compounding Advisory Committee (PCAC)
                         Meeting

                                    July 23 - 24, 2026




The attached package contains background information prepared by the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA or Agency) for the panel members of the Pharmacy Compounding Advisory
Committee (advisory committee). We are bringing certain compounding issues to this advisory
committee to obtain the advisory committee’s advice. The background package may not include all
issues relevant to the final committee recommendation and instead is intended to focus on issues
identified by the Agency for discussion by the advisory committee. The FDA will not issue a final
determination on the issues at hand until input from the advisory committee process has been
considered and all reviews have been finalized. The final determination may be affected by issues
not discussed at the advisory committee meeting.




                                                                                                    1
Semax – Related Bulk
  Drug Substances
 (Semax (free base)
 and Semax acetate)




                       2
                                         Table of Contents
 1. FDA Evaluation of Semax-related bulk drug substances...…..……......................................4
     I.      Introduction….……………………………………………..…………......................7
     II.     Evaluation Criteria…….…….………………………..……………..........................8
             A. Is the substance well characterized, physically and chemically?.........................8
             B. Has the substance been used historically in compounding?...............................20
             C. Available evidence of effectiveness or lack of effectiveness of drug products
                 compounded with the substance…….…………………………………………23
             D. Are there concerns about the safety of the substance for use in
                 compounding?....................................................................................................29
     III.    Conclusion and Recommendation…..…………………..………..………………..41
     IV.     References……………..……….………………..…...………...…………………..45
     V.      Appendices………………………………………………………………………...52
2. Semax-related bulk drug substances Nominations…......……..……………...………..….....56
     I.      LDT Health Solutions Inc…………………………………....………..…………...57
     II.     Wells Pharmacy Network……………………………………………………….....63




                                                                                                                                  3
FDA Evaluation of Semax–Related
Bulk Drug Substances (Semax (free
     base) and Semax acetate)




                                4
DATE:           5/11/2026
FROM:           Jamiele Mattocks, PharmD, BCACP
                Consumer Safety Officer (CSO), Office of Compounding Quality and
                Compliance (OCQC), Office of Compliance (OC)
                Tracy Rupp, PharmD, MPH, BCPS
                Lead Consumer Safety Officer, OCQC, OC
                Jing Li, PhD
                Office of Product Quality Assessment II (OPQAII), Office of Pharmaceutical
                Quality (OPQ)
                Edna Albuquerque, PhD
                Senior Pharmacology/Toxicology Reviewer, Division of
                Pharmacology/Toxicology for Rare Diseases, Pediatrics, Urologic, and
                Reproductive Medicine/Specialty Medicine (DPT-RPURM/SM), Office of New
                Drugs (OND)
                Andrea Benedict, PhD
                Nonclinical Supervisor, DPT-RPURM/SM, OND
                Marianne San Antonio, DO
                Physician, Pharmacy Compounding Review Team (PCRT), Office of Specialty
                Medicine (OSM), OND
                Suhail Kasim, M.D. MPH
                Lead Physician, PCRT, OSM, OND
THROUGH: Russell Wesdyk, B.S., MBA
         ADRA, OPQA2, OPQ
                Alex Gorovets, M.D.
                Deputy Director, OSM, OND
                Matt Lash, JD
                Acting Director, OCQC, OC
                Deputy Director, OC

TO:             Pharmacy Compounding Advisory Committee
SUBJECT:    Evaluation of Semax-related Bulk Drug Substances for Inclusion on the 503A
            Bulk Drug Substances List
______________________________________________________________________________
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov




                                                                                             5
List of Abbreviations

 Abbreviation           Term
 AE                     adverse event
 ACTH                   adrenocorticotropic hormone
 ADHD                   attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
 ALS                    amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
 API                    active pharmaceutical ingredient
 BDS                    bulk drug substance
 BET                    bacterial endotoxins test
 CAS                    Chemical Abstracts Service
 CoA                    Certificate of Analysis
 CQA                    critical quality attributes
 FAERS                  FDA Adverse Event Reporting System
 FD&C Act               Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
 FDA                    Food and Drug Administration
 IN                     intranasal
 INN                    International Nonproprietary Names
 IUPAC                  International Union of Pure and Applied
                        Chemistry
 IP                     intraperitoneal
 IV                     intravenous
 MF                     Molecular formula
 MW                     Molecular weight
 MPST                   modified pain sensitivity test
 NF                     National Formulary
 OTC                    over-the-counter
 REG                    rhoencephalogram
 ROA                    route of administration
 SC                     subcutaneous
 TSEP                   trigeminal somatosensory evoked potentials
 UNII                   Unique Ingredient Identifier
 USAN                   United States Adopted Name
 USP                    United States Pharmacopeia




                                                                     6
I.   INTRODUCTION
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA, the Agency, or we) received nominations for semax-
related bulk drug substances for inclusion on the list of bulk drug substances (BDS) that can be
used in compounding under section 503A of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C
Act). 1 The nominators provided inconsistent information in the nomination packages regarding
the specific BDS proposed. Specifically, it is unclear in both packages whether the nomination
was for semax acetate or semax (free base). Semax acetate and semax (free base) are different
active pharmaceutical ingredients and hence are considered different BDSs. Please see additional
information in section II.A. The nominations were withdrawn 2 and FDA is evaluating the
substances at its discretion.

Although it is unclear whether the nominators intended to nominate semax acetate or semax (free
base), FDA has decided to evaluate both on its own initiative.

Semax acetate and semax (free base) were evaluated for the following use(s): cerebral ischemia,
migraine and trigeminal neuralgia3,4. The semax-related drug products proposed in the
nominations are intranasal spray or subcutaneous injection in 7,500 µg/mL or 1,000 µg/mL
dosage strengths.




1
  The nomination from Wells Pharmacy Network (Document ID: FDA-2015-N-3534-0284) can be
accessed at: https://www.regulations.gov/document/FDA-2015-N-3534-0284. The nomination from LDT
Health Solutions (Document ID: FDA-2018-N-2973-0002 attachment 1) can be accessed at:
https://www.regulations.gov/document/FDA-2018-N-2973-0002. These nominations were withdrawn, but
because FDA is evaluating semax acetate and semax (free base) on its own initiative, FDA considered
information submitted in these nominations as part of this evaluation.
2
  Document IDs: FDA-2015-N-3534-0484 and FDA-2015-N-3534-0485.
3
  Semax-related BDSs were nominated for “analgesia”, but because the reference submitted by the
nominator that discussed analgesia was in subjects with migraine and trigeminal neuralgia, we evaluated
the Semax-related BDSs for these uses. Semax was also nominated for “ADHD” and “nootropic”. ADHD
was not evaluated because supporting literature for this use was not found. “Nootropic” does not have an
ICD-10 code and no professional society treatment guidelines could be found for this use. Dorland
Medical Dictionary 29th Edition defines it as “having positive effects on organically impaired cognition or
nervous system function.” Therefore, this use will be considered as part of the evaluation for cerebral
ischemia.
4
  We have explained that it is necessary to evaluate a nominated bulk drug substance in the context of the
uses proposed for compounded drug products that include the substance, though we acknowledge that
inclusion of a substance on the 503A Bulks List may not be limited to a specific use. See 84 FR 4696,
4701.


                                                                                                         7
There is no applicable United States Pharmacopeia (USP) or National Formulary (NF) drug
substance monograph for semax (free base) or semax acetate, and neither is a component of an
FDA-approved drug.

We have evaluated publicly available data on the physicochemical characteristics, historical use,
effectiveness, and safety in compounding of this substance. For the reasons discussed below, we
believe the evaluation criteria weigh against placing both semax (free base) and semax acetate
on the list of bulk drug substances that can be used to compound drug products in accordance
with section 503A of the FD&C Act (503A Bulks List).

II. EVALUATION CRITERIA

     A. Is the Substance Well-Characterized, Physically and Chemically? 5
Semax is a common name and not a United States Adopted Name (USAN) 6. FDA has
encountered multiple salts, and derivatives, including different active moieties, sold
commercially under the same common name for similarly situated products. Inconsistent naming
conventions that do not follow established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN 7,
IUPAC 8, USAN) represent a safety risk for patients as they may be dosed with a different BDS
than the physician ordered. From a chemical analysis standpoint, inconsistent naming
conventions for semax-related BDSs also introduce risks because of the inability to determine
which BDS a particular reference standard is referencing.




5
  Among the conditions that must be met for a drug compounded using bulk drug substances to be eligible
for the exemptions in section 503A of the FD&C Act is that the bulk drug substances are manufactured
by an establishment that is registered under section 510 of the FD&C Act and that each bulk drug
substance is accompanied by a valid Certificate of Analysis. Sections 503A(b)(1)(A)(ii) and (iii). A bulk
drug substance is deemed to be adulterated if the methods used in, or the facilities or controls used for, its
manufacture, processing, packing, or holding do not conform to or are not operated or administered in
conformity with current good manufacturing practice. Section 501(a)(2)(B).
6
  United States Adopted Name (USAN) is a unique, nonproprietary name for a drug sold in the United
States. The USAN Council, which is sponsored by several organizations, assigns USANs.
7
  International Nonproprietary Names (INN) facilitate the identification of pharmaceutical substances or
active pharmaceutical ingredients. Each INN is a unique name that is globally recognized and is public
property. A nonproprietary name is also known as a generic name.
8
  The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) is an international federation of
National Adhering Organizations working for the advancement of the chemical sciences, especially by
developing nomenclature and terminology.


                                                                                                            8
A BDS or active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) 9 used in a drug product may be a free base
(i.e., the native molecule) or a salt or an ester of the free base, all of which share the same active
moiety. 10 Different active moieties are not interchangeable because they can have different safety
and efficacy profiles. A free base or the various salts or ester forms of an active moiety are
distinct APIs, each with a different chemical structure and unique physical/chemical, or
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic characteristics. As a result, each may offer distinct
properties (e.g., different solubilities, permeability, melting points, stability, or flow
characteristics) and may also have different safety and/or efficacy profiles. All distinct active
moieties, as well as free bases, salts, or esters of any given active moiety, are distinct BDSs for
these reasons.

This evaluation pertains to semax acetate and semax (free base).

Table 1 below summarizes available identifying information obtained from public domain for
each BDS.




9
  The terms BDS and API are used interchangeably in the compounding context. See 21 CFR 207.3
(“Bulk drug substance, as referenced in sections 503A(b)(1)(A) and 503B(a)(2) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, previously defined in § 207.3(a)(4), means the same as "active pharmaceutical
ingredient" as defined in § 207.1.”). An API is defined in FDA regulations at 21 CFR 207.1, which states
“Active pharmaceutical ingredient means any substance that is intended for incorporation into a finished
drug product and is intended to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis,
cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or any function of the body.
Active pharmaceutical ingredient does not include intermediates used in the synthesis of the substance.”
10
   “Active moiety is the molecule or ion, excluding those appended portions of the molecule that cause the
drug to be an ester, salt (including a salt with hydrogen or coordination bonds), or other noncovalent
derivative (such as a complex, chelate, or clathrate) of the molecule, responsible for the physiological or
pharmacological action of the drug substance.”21 CFR 314.3.


                                                                                                            9
Table 1. Summary of Basic Information on Semax (Free Base) and Semax Acetate.
 Characteristic        Semax (Free Base)                              Semax Acetate
 UNII 11 Code          I5FAL2585H                                     Not available
                                                                      2828433-33-4 or use the CAS number
 CAS No.*              80714-61-0
                                                                      same as free base
 MF/MW
                       C37H51N9O10S/813.93                            C39H55N9O12S/874.0
 (g/mol)
 Peptide                                                              H-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro-
                       H-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro-OH
 sequence                                                             OH.CH3CO2H
 Supplier 12           Yes                                            Yes
 Active moiety         Semax (free base)                              Semax (free base)
* CAS: Chemical Abstracts Service; MF/MW: molecular formula/molecular weight; UNII: Unique Ingredient
Identifier

Two nominations were submitted, which, as discussed above, were later withdrawn. They
provided inconsistent information about the different semax-related BDSs in their nominations.
Due to inconsistencies in the nomination packages, the nominated BDS is unclear from both
nominators of semax-related BDSs. For example, the Certificate of Analysis (CoA) submitted
with the nomination refers to one BDS by name in the title and a different BDS by the CAS
number and molecular formula. All chemistry-related information about the BDSs provided by
both nominators is summarized in Table 2.

Table 2. Summary of Information Submitted in Two Withdrawn Nominations.
Nominator         1                                    2
Nominated BDS     Semax                                Semax
BDS per UNII code I5FAL2585H (matches semax free base) I5FAL2585H (matches semax free base)
CoA               CoA provided for Semax Acetate       CoA provided for Semax Acetate
CAS No.           80714-61-0 (matches semax free base) 80714-61-0 (matches semax free base)
                  C37H51N9O10S (provided in the
                                                       C37H51N9O10S (provided in the CoA,
MF                nomination and CoA, matches semax
                                                       matches semax free base)
                  free base)
                  813.93 (provided in the CoA, matches 813.93 (provided in the CoA, matches
MW
                  semax free base)                     semax free base)
                  H-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro-OH     H-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro-OH
Chemical name     (provided in the CoA, matches semax  (provided in the CoA, matches semax free
                  free base)                           base)
Italics in the table above represents the information identified by FDA.




11
   The Unique Ingredient Identifier (UNII) is an alphanumeric identifier linked to a substance's molecular
structure or descriptive information and is generated by the Global Substance Registration System
(GSRS) of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
12
   The existence of a supplier of BDS may be relevant to FDA’s characterization analysis because it
indicates that consistent production of the BDS according to a standard may be possible. BDSs with
suppliers are also frequently accompanied by COAs associated with their production, which can help
FDA to identify and characterize BDSs.


                                                                                                           10
FDA chose to concurrently evaluate both BDSs (semax free base and semax acetate) in this
section under two different sub-sections of this evaluation (II.A.1 and II.A.2) and will provide a
separate conclusion for each of the two BDSs.

The nominators proposed to compound the BDSs into the following dosage forms:

•   Injection/subcutaneous injection

    − For an injection product, in general, critical quality attributes (CQAs) including sterility,
      bacterial endotoxins test (BET), and foreign particulates are critical safety factors. For
      this reason, microbial bioburden load (i.e., microbial enumeration test) and BET are
      critical for the BDSs to be used in compounding injections. Evaluation of the solubility of
      the BDS is also critical to ensure that no BDS precipitates are formed in the compounded
      drug product.

•   Nasal spray solution

    − The container closer system including container, closer, and pump are considered critical
      components of metered-dose nasal spray solution products. The CQAs for nasal spray
      device include pump delivery, spray content uniformity, spray pattern and plume
      geometry, and droplet size distribution. However, there is a lack of information about
      what type of device (e.g., metered-dose nasal spray container closer system) would be
      used to deliver semax, nor any information for a control strategy to assure the product
      CQAs which are critical for the safety and effectiveness of the compounded product.
      Other CQAs for solution-based nasal spray products include microbial quality, foreign
      particulates, and leachables. As such, the microbial quality of the BDSs to be used in
      compounding the nasal spray solution formulation, and suitability/compatibility of the
      device components with the formulation are critical quality considerations. Evaluation of
      the solubility of the BDS is also considered to ensure complete dissolution upon
      formulation.

There is no USP drug substance monograph for semax (free base) or its acetate salt. We
reviewed physical and chemical characterization-related information provided by the nominator
and performed a literature search for additional information on semax (free base) and its acetate
salt. Databases searched for information on semax (free base) and its acetate salt in preparation
of this section included SciFinder, Analytical Profiles of Drug Substances, PubMed, the
European Pharmacopoeia, and the USP-NF.

        1. Semax (Free Base)
Semax (free base) is reported to be a heptapeptide and synthetic analogue of adrenocorticotropic
hormone (ACTH) 4-10 fragment with the following amino acid sequence: Met-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-
Gly-Pro (Deigin et al., 2022). The molecular formula of semax (free base) is C37H51N9O10S and
its molecular weight is 813.93 g/mol. Its chemical structure and peptide sequence are shown in
Figure 1.




                                                                                                 11
Figure 1. The Chemical Structure of Semax (Free Base). 13




            a. Stability of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient and Likely Dosage Forms
It is reported that lyophilized semax (free base) is stable for 4 years when stored at -20°C in a
tightly closed container. 14 Upon reconstitution, keep solution at +4°C for up to 2-7 days. 15

FDA notes that peptides can be extremely sensitive to product formulation, process, and
environmental conditions (e.g., pH, heat (temperature), concentration, in-process related
impurities, excipients), which may lead to the aggregation and degradation of peptides. This
could result in loss of their biological activity (Zapadka et al. 2017). Multiple analytical methods
may be needed to detect various aggregates, including size exclusion chromatography or field
flow fractionation. Hence, peptides may require more and/or specific analytical in-process and
finished product testing for impurities than what is required for small molecules. Uncontrolled
manufacturing processes as well as impurities may increase the risk of product aggregation,
especially for semax (free base) with 7 amino acids. Significant amounts of aggregates can form
in formulated products, especially during storage or when exposed to stress conditions.
Therefore, product formulation is critical to the quality and stability of peptide drug products, as
it is necessary to maintain the peptide molecules in their native state (in the formulation) to the
extent possible.




13
   Semax | C37H51N9O10S | CID 9811102 - PubChem (nih.gov). Accessed 12/12/24.
14
   https://cdn.caymanchem.com/cdn/insert/27719.pdf. Accessed 12/12/24.
15
   https://www.prospecbio.com/semax. Accessed 12/12/24.


                                                                                                    12
             b. Probable Routes of API Synthesis
Semax (free base) was reported to be synthesized via the steps described below by sequentially
producing the compounds from I to VII to obtain the final substance, semax (free base)
(Ponomareva-Stepnaya et al., 1984).

1.   Boc-Pro-Gly-ProOBzl (I)
2.   Boc-His-Phe-OBzl (II)
3.   Boc-His-Phe (Ill)
4.   Boc-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro-OBzl (IV)
5.   Boc-y-Bzl-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro-OBzl (V)
6.   Boc-Met-y-Bzl-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro-OBzl (VI)
7.   Boc-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro (VII)
8.   H-Met-Glu-His-Phe-Pro-Gly-Pro (VIII)

However, we do not know what synthetic method was used to manufacture the nominated semax
(free base).

             c. Likely Impurities 16
Generally speaking, peptide-related impurities and peptide synthesis process-related impurities
contribute to and are considered in understanding the impurity profile for all peptides, including
semax (free base). For most synthetic peptides, solid-phase peptide synthesis method has been
widely used by industry for peptide synthesis. The solid phase synthesis of peptides may lead to
potential peptide-related impurities due to incomplete coupling reactions, truncations, or side
reactions. These peptide-related impurities are typically similar in structure to the target peptide
and may be difficult to identify and quantify without sophisticated analytical methods.
Additional potential common impurities may be derived from impurities in the protected amino
acid starting materials (e.g., isomeric impurities, free amino acids) and other species that may
carry over into the drug substance. In addition, residual solvents, coupling reagents, activators,
catalysts, and scavengers may exist as solid phase peptide synthesis process related impurities.
Drug substance and its proposed product-related impurities may also include peptide-related
aggregates, especially for a peptide like semax (free base) with 7 amino acids that may have an
inherent tendency to aggregate.

There is no CoA for semax (free base) in the nomination. We conducted literature searches and
found a CoA for semax (free base) that only contains ID, amino acid analysis, and purity testing
results shown below as an example (Figure 2). 17 However, there is no information on the


16
   This evaluation contains a non-exhaustive list of potential impurities in the bulk drug substance and
does not address fully the potential safety concerns associated with those impurities. The compounder
should use the information about the impurities identified in the certificate of analysis accompanying the
bulk drug substance to evaluate any potential safety and quality issues associated with impurities in a drug
product compounded using that bulk drug substance taking into account the amount of the impurity, dose,
route of administration, and chronicity of dosing. Available nonclinical toxicity data for likely impurities
of concern (e.g., nitrosamines, potential mutagenic substances, and potential teratogenic substances) in
the nominated bulk drug substance are discussed in the Nonclinical Assessment at Section C.I. as part of
the safety assessment of the substance.
17
   https://documents.tocris.com/pdfs/tocris_coa/7712_1_coa.pdf?1715792499. Accessed 12/12/24.


                                                                                                         13
impurity limits/testing results as key attribute control in the CoA to demonstrate quality control
of impurity profile of semax (free base).

Because there is lack of information regarding potential impurities that can be present in semax
(free base) and the lack of information on the potential of peptide aggregation, we cannot rule
out the potential for immunogenicity associated with these impurities and peptide related
aggregates.

Figure 2. Example of a CoA for Semax.




               d. Physicochemical Characteristics Pertinent to Product Performance, Such as
                  Particle Size and Polymorphism
Semax (free base) is white lyophilized powder. Based on reports in most publicly available
literature semax (free base) is soluble in water up to 2 mg/mL 18 and approximately 10 mg/mL in
phosphate-buffered saline. 19



18
     https://documents.tocris.com/pdfs/tocris_coa/7712_1_coa.pdf?1715792499. Accessed 12/12/24.
19
     https://cdn.caymanchem.com/cdn/insert/27719.pdf. Accessed 12/12/24.


                                                                                                     14
Because the BDS is soluble in water and would be solubilized prior to administration, particle
size and polymorphism are not considered critical quality attributes that affect performance for
the proposed injectable dosage forms with the concentration of 1,000 µg/mL.

However, due to lack of information on the formulation for the proposed dosage forms (injection
and intranasal spray) with the concentration of 7,500 µg/mL, we cannot evaluate how the
physicochemical characteristics of semax (free base) will impact the performance of the
proposed final products (7,500 µg/mL).

            e. Any Other Information About the Substance That May Be Relevant, Such as
               Whether the API Is Poorly Characterized or Difficult to Characterize
Because there is lack of CoA for semax (free base), we do not know if microbial bioburden
and/or bacterial endotoxin tests are in place to control the BDS proposed for compounding
injectable dosage form. Endotoxin test is considered a critical quality control attribute for an
injection product. However, endotoxin testing was not identified from publicly available
scientific literature, either.

As mentioned at the beginning of Section IIA, for a metered dose nasal spray solution product,
the information about the container closer system (including container, closer, and pump) is
relevant to the CQAs (pump delivery, spray content uniformity, spray pattern and plume
geometry, and droplet size distribution) for the proposed product and would affect how the BDS
is delivered. However, no such information is available either in the nomination or the publicly
available scientific literature.

Conclusions: Semax (free base) is reported to be a heptapeptide. As reported in the literature,
semax (free base) is expected to be stable under reported storage conditions (below -20°C).

Semax (free base) is considered to be not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) BDS-specific
quality control attributes, including impurities, aggregates, bacterial endotoxins, and microbial
bioburden testing, were not found in the publicly available scientific literature and lack of CoA
in the nomination which are offered as evidence to establishing identity, purity, and impurity
profiles of the substance of semax (free base) delivered via the subcutaneous (SC) and intranasal
spray routes of administration (ROAs). The limited information related to critical
characterization data is particularly important for immunogenicity. As discussed in
Section II.D.2.d., FDA is concerned about the potential for immunogenicity of semax (free base)
when formulated in an injectable or intranasal spray dosage forms due to the potential for
aggregation as well as potential peptide-related impurities, as discussed in the Section II.A.1.c.
We also note that the stability, pharmacological activity, and immunogenic properties of peptides
are highly sensitive to the manufacturing process and quality attributes of the
compounded/finished drug product.

In addition, FDA would have strong concerns about the use of this BDS in the proposed
compounded nasal spray solution product due to lack of information about the container closer
system, including container, closer, and pump – all of which are relevant to the CQAs for the
proposed product and would affect how the BDS is delivered via this product.



                                                                                                   15
          2. Semax Acetate
Semax acetate is reported to be an acetate salt form of semax (free base). The molecular formula
of semax acetate is C39H55N9O12S and its chemical structure is shown in Figure 3. One of the
withdrawn nominators provided an example of a CoA for semax acetate with the quality control
attribute testing results, including identification, amino acid composition, peptide purity, related
substances, water content, acetate content and residual solvents (Figure 4A). There are no testing
results for the quality control attribute on aggregates, microbial bioburden and bacterial
endotoxin levels.

The CoAs provided by the nominators include the quality control attribute testing results for
identification, amino acid composition, peptide purity, single impurity or total impurities, water
content, and acetate content (Figure 4B). There are no testing results for the quality control
attribute on aggregates, and microbial levels.

Figure 3. The Structure of Semax Acetate. 20




20
     https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/Semax-acetate. Accessed 12/12/24.



                                                                                                  16
Figure 4. Nominator-Provided Examples of CoAs for Semax Acetate.




     A. Provided by withdrawn nominator 1                  B. Provided by withdrawn nominator 2

               a. Stability of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient and Likely Dosage Forms
Based on the CoA provided by withdrawn nominator 1, long-term storage conditions for semax
acetate are “in a sealed container at 2°C to 8°C.” Additionally, semax acetate is reported to be
stable at -80°C for 2 years and at -20°C for 1 year under sealed storage away from moisture and
light. The aliquot solution of semax acetate is stable at -80°C for 6 months and at -20°C for
1 month. 21

FDA notes that peptides can be extremely sensitive to product formulation, process, and
environmental conditions (e.g., pH, heat (temperature), concentration, in-process related
impurities, excipients), which may lead to the aggregation and degradation of peptides. This
could result in loss of their biological activity (Zapadka et al. 2017). Multiple analytical methods
may be needed to detect various aggregates, including size exclusion chromatography or field
flow fractionation. Hence, peptides may require more and/or specific analytical in-process and
finished product testing for impurities than what is required for small molecules. Uncontrolled
manufacturing processes as well as impurities may increase the risk of product aggregation,
especially for semax acetate containing 7 amino acids that may have an inherent tendency to
aggregate. Significant amounts of aggregates can form in formulated products, especially during
storage or when exposed to stress conditions. Therefore, product formulation is critical to the




21
  https://www.medchemexpress.com/semax-
acetate.html?srsltid=AfmBOoqS1WDZwkh3sDswlqWGV8EP_jXzC1mhO5DSf0TDJRz0kq4gq-oj.
Accessed 12/12/24.


                                                                                                  17
quality and stability of peptide drug products, as it is necessary to maintain the peptide molecules
in their native state (in the formulation) to the extent possible.

             b. Probable Routes of API Synthesis
Semax (free base) can be synthesized using the method mentioned in A.1.b. Then, the semax
(free base) can be converted into its acetate salt.

             c. Likely Impurities 22
Generally speaking, peptide-related impurities and peptide synthesis process-related impurities
contribute to and are considered in understanding the impurity profile for all peptides, including
semax acetate. For most synthetic peptides, the solid-phase peptide synthesis method has been
widely used by industry for peptide synthesis. The solid-phase synthesis of peptides may lead to
potential peptide-related impurities due to incomplete coupling reactions, truncations, or side
reactions. These peptide-related impurities are typically similar in structure to the target peptide
and may be difficult to identify and quantify without sophisticated analytical methods.
Additional potential common impurities may be derived from impurities in the protected amino
acid starting materials (e.g., isomeric impurities, free amino acids) and other species that may
carry over into the drug substance. In addition, residual solvents, coupling reagents, activators,
catalysts, and scavengers may exist as solid phase peptide synthesis process related impurities.
Drug substance and its proposed product-related impurities may also include peptide-related
aggregates, especially for a peptide like semax acetate with 7 amino acids that may have an
inherent tendency to aggregate.

In the CoAs the withdrawn nominators provided there is no information regarding the nature of
individual impurities that can be present at up to 1.0% (withdrawn nominator 1) or 2.0%
(withdrawn nominator 2) level. Such information also cannot be found from publicly available
scientific literature.

Because there is lack of information regarding the nature of potential impurities that can be
present in semax acetate and the lack of information on the potential of peptide aggregation, we
cannot rule out the potential for immunogenicity associated with these impurities and peptide
related aggregates.

             d. Physicochemical Characteristics Pertinent to Product Performance, Such as
                Particle Size and Polymorphism
Semax acetate is a white powder. It is soluble in water based on the CoA provided by withdrawn
nominator 1. However, there are no water solubility data available in both withdrawn

22
  This evaluation contains a non-exhaustive list of potential impurities in the bulk drug substance and
does not address fully the potential safety concerns associated with those impurities. The compounder
should use the information about the impurities identified in the certificate of analysis accompanying the
bulk drug substance to evaluate any potential safety and quality issues associated with impurities in a drug
product compounded using that bulk drug substance taking into account the amount of the impurity, dose,
route of administration, and chronicity of dosing. Available nonclinical toxicity data for likely impurities
of concern (e.g., nitrosamines, potential mutagenic substances, and potential teratogenic substances) in
the nominated bulk drug substance are discussed in the Nonclinical Assessment (Section C.I.) as part of
the safety assessment of the substance.


                                                                                                         18
nominations and publicly available scientific literature. The only solubility data we can find is
that semax acetate is soluble in DMSO with 100 mg/mL. 23 However, the data is not helpful for
our evaluation of the proposed dosage forms.

Because the nominator did not provide any information on how to compound proposed injectable
and intranasal spray products with the strengths proposed, we cannot evaluate how the
physicochemical characteristics of semax acetate, especially the water solubility of semax
acetate, will impact the performance of the proposed injectable and intranasal spray products due
to lack of the water solubility data for semax acetate.

               e. Any Other Information About the Substance That May Be Relevant, Such as
                  Whether the API Is Poorly Characterized or Difficult to Characterize
In the CoA provided by withdrawn nominator 1, there is no testing result for microbial bioburden
and/or bacterial endotoxin levels. Bacterial endotoxin test is considered a critical quality control
attribute for an injection product. However, endotoxin testing was not identified from publicly
available scientific literature, either.

As mentioned at the beginning of Section IIA, for a metered dose nasal spray solution product,
the information about the container closer system (including container, closer, and pump) is
relevant to the CQAs (pump delivery, spray content uniformity, spray pattern and plume
geometry, and droplet size distribution) for the proposed product and would affect how the BDS
is delivered. However, no such information is available either in the nominations or the publicly
available scientific literature.

Conclusions: Semax acetate is reported to be an acetate salt of semax (free base). As reported in
the literature, semax acetate is expected to be stable under reported storage conditions.

Semax acetate is considered not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) certain critical
characterization data specific to semax acetate (including impurities, aggregates, microbial
bioburden and/or bacterial endotoxin) were not found in the publicly available scientific
literature, and the CoAs provided, which were offered as evidence to establishing identity,
purity, and impurity profiles of the substance, lacked specific tests (including impurities,
aggregates, microbial and bacterial endotoxins). The limited information related to critical
characterization data is particularly important for immunogenicity. As discussed in
Section II.D.2.d., FDA is concerned about the potential for immunogenicity of semax acetate
when formulated in an injectable dosage form for SC administration as well as in intranasal
spray dosage form due to the potential for aggregation as well as potential peptide-related
impurities, as discussed in Section II.A.2.c. The nominations did not include, and FDA has not
identified, information about semax acetate to suggest that this substance does not present these
risks. Therefore, we cannot rule out potential immunogenicity issues associated with peptide and
peptide-related impurities aggregates. In addition, it is difficult to evaluate how the
physicochemical characteristics of semax acetate, especially the water solubility of semax
acetate, will impact on the performance of the proposed injectable and intranasal spray products


23
     https://www.abmole.com/products/semax-acetate.html. Accessed 12/12/24.


                                                                                                    19
due to lack of water solubility data for semax acetate. We also note that the stability,
pharmacological activity, and immunogenic properties of peptides are highly sensitive to the
manufacturing process and quality attributes of the compounded/finished drug product.

In addition, FDA would have strong concerns about the use of this BDS in the proposed
compounded nasal spray solution product due to lack of information about container closer
system, including container, closer, and pump – all of which are relevant to the CQAs for the
proposed product and would affect how the BDS is delivered via this product.

     B. Has the Substance Been Used Historically in Compounding?
This evaluation focuses on semax (free base) and semax acetate for intranasal and subcutaneous
administration and their use in cerebral ischemia and analgesia for migraine and trigeminal
neuralgia; however, FDA searched generally on the historical use of semax-related BDSs in
compounding. Information about use may not specify specific attributes of the product, such as
route of administration. Databases searched for this evaluation included PubMed, EMBASE,
Registration of Medicines in Russia 24, European Pharmacopoeia (11.8 Edition) 25, Japanese
Pharmacopoeia (18th Edition) 26, International Pharmacopoeia (12th Edition) 27, NatMed Pro
database 28, GlobalEdge 29, USP-NF 30, FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) public
dashboard 31, Compounding Today 32, Google/Google Scholar, and the Outsourcing Facility
Product Reporting Database 33. It is often unclear which form of semax is being discussed in
information from these sources. Therefore, FDA will consider the information discussed in this
section in its evaluation of all forms of semax as appropriate.

        1.   Length of Time the Substance Has Been Used in Compounding
The nominator states that semax has been used to compound drug products but did not provide
any additional information regarding the historical use of semax in compounding. The
nominators submitted 38 articles but none of the articles discussed the use of a compounded
formulation of semax.

The extent to which semax has been used in compounding is unclear. A Google search did not
identify any pharmacies that market drug products containing any form of semax. Based on a
press release from the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky, a


24
   Available at https://grls.rosminzdrav.ru/default.aspx (available in Russian; translation required).
Accessed 12/4/25.
25
   Available at https://pheur.edqm.eu/home (subscription required). Accessed 12/4/25.
26
   Available at https://www.pmda.go.jp/english/rs-sb-std/standards-development/jp/0029.html. Accessed
12/4/25.
27
   Available at https://digicollections.net/phint/2025/index.html#d/b.1. Accessed 12/4/25.
28
   Available at https://naturalmedicines.therapeuticresearch.com/ (subscription required). Accessed
12/4/25.
29
   Available at https://globaledge.msu.edu/industries/healthcare/regulatory-agencies.
30
   Available at https://www.uspnf.com/ (subscription required). Accessed 12/4/25.
31
   Available at https://fis.fda.gov/sense/app/95239e26-e0be-42d9-a960-9a5f7f1c25ee/sheet/7a47a261-
d58b-4203-a8aa-6d3021737452/state/analysis. Accessed 12/4/25.
32
   Available at https://compoundingtoday.com (subscription required). Accessed 12/4/25.
33
   Available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/outsourcingfacility/. Accessed 12/4/25.


                                                                                                     20
pharmacy compounded and distributed products containing semax from 10/25/18 to 4/1/20, but it
is unclear which form of semax was being used to compound the products. 34 No studies were
found in which semax was used as a compounded drug product.

         2.   The Medical Condition(s) It Has Been Used to Treat
A literature search revealed that semax has been studied as a therapy for peptic ulcer, chronic
ischemic brain disease, migraine, and trigeminal neuralgia. One article discusses the use of
intranasal semax (1%, 2-4 drops 3 times a day for 10 days) in addition to basic therapy
(omeprazole 20 mg twice a day, “denol” 120 mg 2 times a day, and “solcoseril” 2.0
intramuscularly) versus basic therapy without semax for peptic ulcer. The study authors note that
the semax used in this study was synthesized at the Laboratory of Regulatory Peptides, Institute
of Molecular Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences (Ivanikov et al. 2002). Semax has also
been studied as a therapy for chronic ischemic brain disease (Cherkasova et al. 2002) and for
migraine and trigeminal neuralgia (Koroleva et al. 1996).

One article hypothesizes that a possible use for semax, based on animal models and studies in
healthy adults, might be attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and Rett syndrome
(Tsai 2006).

Semax is marketed online for a variety of conditions: anxiety, depression, attention/memory
improvement, ischemic events/stroke, nerve regeneration, diabetic neuropathy, ADHD, opioid
withdrawal, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, dys-
circulatory encephalopathy, optic nerve atrophy, pain, and gastric protection. 35

         3. How Widespread Its Use Has Been
No outsourcing facility has reported compounding drug products containing semax since 2019. 36
An online search identified websites of health/wellness clinics, medical concierge services,
functional and regenerative medicine clinics, and online retailers in the United States that are




34
   See https://www.justice.gov/usao-edky/pr/nicholasville-compounding-pharmacy-and-its-owner-
sentenced-unlawful-distribution. Accessed 12/4/25.
35
   See https://rwacenter.com/product/semax/, https://www.eternityhealthpartners.com/semax-selank/,
https://neuronmedical.com/peptide-therapy-selank-semax-thousand-oaks/, https://stemedix.com/peptides/,
https://www.transformyou.com/semax-peptide, https://www.biltmorerestorativemedicine.com/health-
wellness/peptide-therapy-in-asheville-nc/, https://www.limitlesslifenootropics.com/product/semax-10ml-
nasal-spray-30mg/. Accessed 12/4/25.
36
   Drug Quality and Security Act, signed into law on November 27, 2013, created a new section 503B in
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Under section 503B, a compounder can become an
outsourcing facility. Outsourcing facilities are required to provide FDA with a list of drugs they
compounded during the previous 6-month period upon initial registration and in June and December each
year. This retrospective information does not identify drugs that outsourcing facilities intend to produce in
the future. The outsourcing facility product report is available at:
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/outsourcingfacility. Accessed 12/4/25.


                                                                                                          21
marketing semax injection and intranasal products. 37 Many of the websites do not describe or
clearly state whether the semax products marketed are compounded.

Semax products are marketed as single ingredient formulations and in combination with selank.
One website offers a semax single ingredient 2.5 mg/mL injectable product and a 1.25 mg/mL
nasal spray; the website also offers a “50:50” combination of semax and selank as a 2.5 mg/mL
injectable product and 1.25 mg/mL nasal spray. 38 One online retail website offers a semax 30 mg
nasal spray product. 39 Another online retail website offers semax 30 mg “for research purposes
only” and lists nasal spray and subcutaneous injection as common methods of administration. 40

None of the websites searched indicate whether their marketed products contain the base or a salt
or ester of semax.

        4. Recognition of the Substance in Other Countries or Foreign Pharmacopeias
There is no monograph for semax in the European Pharmacopoeia (11th Edition, 11.8), the
Japanese Pharmacopoeia (18th Edition), or the International Pharmacopoeia (12th Edition).
Semax is a registered drug in Russia and is available as 0.1% and 1% nasal drops. 41

Conclusions: It is often unclear whether the semax discussed in the sources considered for this
section is the salt formulation or the free base. Semax injection and intranasal products are
widely marketed in the United States through health/wellness clinics, medical concierge services,
functional and regenerative medicine clinics, and online retailers for anxiety, depression,
attention/memory improvement, ischemic events/stroke, nerve regeneration, diabetic neuropathy,
ADHD, opioid withdrawal, ALS, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, dys-circulatory
encephalopathy, optic nerve atrophy, pain, and gastric protection. The extent to which semax has
been used in compounding is unclear. Semax is a registered drug in Russia and is available as
0.1% and 1% nasal drops.




37
   See https://rwacenter.com/product/semax/, https://www.eternityhealthpartners.com/semax-selank/,
https://neuronmedical.com/peptide-therapy-selank-semax-thousand-oaks/ https://stemedix.com/peptides/,
https://www.transformyou.com/semax-peptide, https://www.biltmorerestorativemedicine.com/health-
wellness/peptide-therapy-in-asheville-nc/, https://pharmagradepeptides.is/product/semax-30mg-2/ ,
https://pinnacleintegrative.com/peptides/, https://www.limitlesslifenootropics.com/product/semax-10ml-
nasal-spray-30mg/. Accessed 12/4/25.
38
   See https://rwacenter.com/product/semax/, https://rwacenter.com/product/semax-selank/. Accessed
12/4/25.
39
   See https://www.limitlesslifenootropics.com/product/semax-10ml-nasal-spray-30mg/. Accessed
12/4/25.
40
   See https://pharmagradepeptides.is/product/semax-30mg-2/. Accessed 12/4/25.
41
   See
https://grls.rosminzdrav.ru/GRLS.aspx?RegNumber=&MnnR=&lf=&TradeNmR=%d1%81%d0%b5%d0
%bc%d0%b0%d0%ba%d1%81&OwnerName=&MnfOrg=&MnfOrgCountry=&isfs=0&regtype=1%2c6
&pageSize=10&order=Registered&orderType=desc&pageNum=1 (available in Russian; translation
required). Accessed 12/4/25.


                                                                                                    22
     C. Available Evidence of Effectiveness or Lack of Effectiveness of Drug Products
        Compounded With the Substance
In addition to the references submitted by the nominator, the following databases were consulted
in the preparation of this section: PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews,
ClinicalTrials.gov, professional healthcare organization websites, and various online clinical
references and websites. In addition to a comprehensive review of pertinent information from
these databases, this section provides a brief overview of cerebral ischemia, migraine, and
trigeminal neuralgia and a discussion of the proposed use(s) of semax-related BDSs.

We evaluated semax-related BDSs for cerebral ischemia, migraine and trigeminal neuralgia 42
and considered available data to support effectiveness. The clinical references discuss an active
moiety the authors call semax, but these references do not specify whether the substance used
was a free base or a salt. Therefore, when discussing these references, the substance will be
referred to as semax (the term that was used by the authors).

         1. Cerebral Ischemia
Cerebral ischemia is a common mechanism of acute brain injury that results from impaired blood
flow to the brain. Cerebral ischemia can be global or focal. The most common cause of global
brain ischemia is systemic hypotension. Focal brain ischemia most commonly arises from
obstruction of arterial blood flow to the brain, often as a result of thrombosis, embolism or
vascular stenosis. The management of this condition is targeted at correcting the underlying
cause and minimizing risk factors, such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia,
to decrease the risk of recurrence (DeSai and Shapshack 2023).

Studies for the acute treatment of cerebral ischemia generally evaluate endpoints such as
neurological improvement based on clinical outcomes that measure clinical disability at three
months after stroke based on the modified Rankin Scale score. 43 Studies for the prevention of
cerebral ischemia have evaluated endpoints such as reduction in the occurrence of stroke,
reduction in risk of stroke, time to first occurrence of new ischemic stroke, and reduction in
blood pressure.

Professional society guidelines for the treatment and prevention of cerebral ischemia do not
discuss semax-related BDSs (Powers et al. 2019; Johnston et al. 2006; Kleindorfer et al. 2021).




42
   Semax-related BDSs were nominated for “analgesia”, but because the reference submitted by the
nominator that discussed analgesia was in subjects with migraine and trigeminal neuralgia, we evaluated
the Semax-related BDSs for these uses. Semax was also nominated for “ADHD” and “nootropic”. ADHD
was not evaluated because supporting literature for this use was not found. “Nootropic” does not have an
ICD-10 code and no professional society treatment guidelines could be found for this use. Dorland
Medical Dictionary 29th Edition defines it as “having positive effects on organically impaired cognition
or nervous system function”. Therefore, this use will be considered as part of the evaluation for cerebral
ischemia.
43
   Modified Rankin Score (Broderick et al. 2017).
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5552200/pdf/nihms875857.pdf Accessed 12/5/25.


                                                                                                        23
             a. Reports of Trials, Clinical Evidence, and Anecdotal Reports of Effectiveness, or
                Lack of Effectiveness, of the Bulk Drug Substance
•    Cherkasova et al. 2002 (meeting abstract)

        This reference was submitted by the nominators and is an abstract from a professional
        society meeting. No full published article could be located for this reference. The abstract
        describes a study in which semax was given to both rats and humans. An unknown
        number of human subjects with chronic ischemic brain disease received intranasal semax
        600 mg daily for 10 days. The authors discuss lab values that were measured but do not
        specify if these labs were done in the animal or human subjects. The authors do not
        discuss how long the human subjects had ischemia or if they had received other
        medications for the prevention or treatment of this condition. Although the authors
        measured labs related to blood clotting (such as plasmin, antithrombin III, and protein C),
        the authors do not provide full results for these lab values, nor do they discuss clinical
        function before and after receiving semax.

References regarding the use of semax-related BDSs for cerebral ischemia found by FDA were
articles published in Russian 44, some of which had English abstracts. Because the full references
were not available in English, these references were not considered as part of this evaluation 45.
Although several review articles hypothesize that semax might be used in the treatment of
cerebral ischemia, the information referenced in these review articles is based on data from
studies completed in animals 46, and do not provide additional references in humans with cerebral
ischemia. One review 47 provided some human references, but the references regarding cerebral
ischemia are written in Russian 48 and those studies regarding neuroprotective and nootropic
effects are in healthy adults 49 or are written in Russian 50.

             b. Whether the Product Compounded With This Bulk Drug Substance Is Intended
                To Be Used in a Serious or Life-Threatening Disease
Cerebral ischemia is a serious disease that, if untreated, can result in death or permanent
disability (DeSai and Shapshak 2023).




44
   Miasoedova et al. 1999, Gusev et al. 1997, Gusev et al. 2005, Gusev et al. 2018.
45
   See 21 CFR 10.20(c)(2) (“If a part of the material submitted is in a foreign language, it must be
accompanied by an English translation verified to be complete and accurate, together with the name,
address, and a brief statement of the qualifications of the person making the translation. A translation of
literature or other material in a foreign language is to be accompanied by copies of the original
publication.”)
46
   Deigin et al. 2022; Tarasov et al. 2017.
47
   Kolomin et al. 2013.
48
   Shmyrev et al. 1998; Gusev et al. 1997; Gusev et al. 1996; Gusev et al. 2005.
49
   Kaplan et al. 1996.
50
   Kaplan et al. 1992; Alekseeva et al. 1999.


                                                                                                              24
             c. Therapies That Have Been Used for the Condition(s) Under Consideration
There are many FDA-approved drug products that prevent and treat the same medical condition
as that proposed for the semax-related compounded drug product(s). 51 These drug products are
listed in Table A located in Appendix 1. 52

             d. Conclusion for Cerebral Ischemia
There is insufficient evidence of effectiveness to support use of semax (free base) or semax
acetate for cerebral ischemia. The only available information was in the form of a meeting
abstract that lacked information about relevant clinical endpoints. Professional society guidelines
on the treatment of cerebral ischemia do not discuss semax-related BDSs. Cerebral ischemia is a
serious condition and there are FDA-approved drug products for the prevention and treatment of
this condition.

         2. Migraine
Migraine is a chronic neurologic disease characterized by attacks of throbbing, often unilateral
headache that are exacerbated by physical activity and associated with photophobia,
phonophobia, nausea, vomiting, and, frequently, cutaneous allodynia (Ailani et al. 2021).

Studies for the acute treatment of migraine generally evaluate endpoints such as reduction to no
pain within 2 hours of receiving a treatment, freedom from most bothersome symptoms such as
nausea, phonophobia, or photophobia following treatment, and the use of rating scales to assess
changes in daily functioning following treatment. Studies for the preventive treatment of
migraine have evaluated endpoints such as change from baseline in the mean monthly migraine
days, change from baseline in the need for acute migraine treatments, and the use of rating scales
to assess changes in daily functioning following treatment.

Professional society guidelines for the treatment of migraine do not discuss semax-related BDSs
(Ailani et al. 2021).

             a. Reports of Trials, Clinical Evidence, and Anecdotal Reports of Effectiveness, or
                Lack of Effectiveness, of the Bulk Drug Substance
•    Koroleva et al. 1996

        This reference was submitted by the nominator. This study evaluated adults with
        migraine, trigeminal neuralgia, or dental plexalgia. The data for the study populations
        related to trigeminal neuralgia are discussed below in Section II.C.3.a. In the migraine
        group, 12 subjects (10 women and 2 men aged 19-56 years) received one dose
        (0.5 mg/kg) of intranasal semax. Pain severity was measured using the modified pain
        sensitivity test (MPST) rating scales. The authors did not describe this rating scale and


51
   FDA considers the existence of FDA-approved or OTC monograph drug products to treat the same
condition as that proposed for the nomination relevant to FDA’s consideration of the effectiveness
criterion, to the extent there may be alternative therapies that have been demonstrated to be effective for
certain conditions. See 84 FR 4696.
52
   Labels for the drug products listed in this table can be found at https://nctr-
crs.fda.gov/fdalabel/ui/search. Accessed 8/4/25.


                                                                                                          25
        there was no information referenced about the scale and we did not identify additional
        information about the MPST rating scale. Rhoencephalogram (REG) was recorded before
        and 5, 15, and 30 minutes after administration of semax. The article provided insufficient
        information on REG recordings and its relevance to clinical outcomes in subjects
        experiencing migraine headaches; changes in REG recordings appeared to have been
        used as a measure of vasodilatory effect and vascular tone to identify two types of
        responders to semax administration.
        The authors reported that total MPST score decreased from 78% before semax to 32%
        after semax administration. Four subjects out of twelve (33%) reported cessation of
        headache pain 90-120 minutes after semax administration, whereas in 8 subjects the
        authors reported that “the effect of semax was weaker; “pain was not eliminated but
        became less severe.” There was no information about migraine headache characteristics
        at baseline such as headache intensity or severity, presence or absence of associated
        symptoms, unilaterality or bilaterality of the headache, etc. Additional limitations of this
        study include the small sample size, no blinding, no control group, the absence of
        reporting of the actual scores or standard deviations for the scores of the rating scales,
        and there were insufficient details provided on the design and the conduct of this study. A
        minority of the subjects had resolution of their pain and it is unclear from the rating
        scales used how much the pain interfered with daily functioning and how semax may
        have affected that.

FDA was unable to find additional references regarding the use of semax-related BDSs for
migraine.

             b. Whether the Product Compounded With This Bulk Drug Substance Is Intended
                To Be Used in a Serious or Life-Threatening Disease
Migraine can be a serious condition and can significantly impair functional ability and may
increase the risk for other serious medical conditions, such as depression and epilepsy (Ailani et
al. 2021).

             c. Therapies That Have Been Used for the Condition(s) Under Consideration
There are many FDA-approved drug products and over-the-counter (OTC) drug products that
treat the same medical condition as that proposed for the semax-related compounded drug
product(s). 53 These drug products are listed in Tables B and C in Appendix 2. 54

             d. Conclusion for Migraine
There is insufficient evidence of effectiveness to support use of semax (free base) or semax
acetate for headache pain (analgesia) in subjects with migraine headache. The results from only
one small, uncontrolled, open label study showed that semax was not effective in resolving


53
   FDA considers the existence of FDA-approved or OTC monograph drug products to treat the same
condition as that proposed for the nomination relevant to FDA’s consideration of the effectiveness
criterion, to the extent there may be alternative therapies that have been demonstrated to be effective for
certain conditions. See 84 FR 4696.
54
   Labels for the drug products listed in this table can be found at https://nctr-
crs.fda.gov/fdalabel/ui/search. Accessed 8/4/25.


                                                                                                          26
headache pain for the majority of subjects with migraine. Professional society guidelines on the
treatment of migraine do not discuss semax-related BDSs. Migraine is a serious condition and
there are FDA-approved drug products for the prevention and treatment of this condition.

        3. Trigeminal Neuralgia
Trigeminal neuralgia is a condition causing severe, unilateral, episodic facial pain. Patients
typically report brief, lancinating attacks triggered by eating, drinking, talking, or touching the
face. There is a distinction between typical trigeminal neuralgia paroxysms where there is no
pain between episodic attacks and trigeminal neuralgia with concomitant pain where there is
background pain between attacks. Chong et al. (2023) discusses three etiologic classifications for
trigeminal neuralgia:

•   Classic—vascular contact on the trigeminal nerve.
•   Secondary—possible underlying pathology such as schwannoma or multiple sclerosis.
•   Idiopathic—no apparent structural cause.

Professional society guidelines for treatment and prevention of trigeminal neuralgia do not
discuss semax-related BDSs (Chong et al. 2023).

            a. Reports of Trials, Clinical Evidence, and Anecdotal Reports of Effectiveness, or
               Lack of Effectiveness, of the Bulk Drug Substance
•   Koroleva et al. 1996

       This reference was submitted by the nominator. This study evaluated adults with
       migraine, trigeminal neuralgia, or dental plexalgia. The data for study populations related
       to migraine was described above in Section II.C.2.a. The authors defined dental plexalgia
       as a subtype of trigeminal neuralgia. There was a total of 25 adult subjects with
       trigeminal neuralgia in the study. The typical trigeminal neuralgia group consisted of 16
       subjects (12 women and 4 men aged 45-65 years) and the dental plexalgia group
       consisted of 9 subjects (3 women and 6 men aged 15-52 years). Subjects in both groups
       received one dose (0.5 mg/kg) of intranasal semax. Pain severity and frequency were
       measured using the modified pain sensitivity test (MPST) rating scales. The authors did
       not describe this rating scale and there was no information referenced about the scale and
       we did not identify additional information about the MPST rating scale. Thresholds of
       sensation and pain in response to electrostimulation of the skin in symmetrical areas of
       the face on healthy and affected sides as well as trigeminal somatosensory evoked
       potentials (TSEP) before and 5, 15, and 30 minutes after semax administration were
       recorded.

       The authors report that in the subjects with typical trigeminal neuralgia, there were no
       changes in the characteristics of pain in the MPST nor changes in sensation or pain
       thresholds and TSEP after administration of semax. In subjects with dental plexalgia,
       pain resolved in 6 subjects and 3 subjects reported a decrease in pain severity, with
       change in their perception of pain. However, MPST results showed that overall, there was
       no reduction in frequency of pain attacks, duration of pain attacks, and differences in
       sensory characteristics of pain. Although there were some differences in patient reports of
       pain severity pre- and post- semax, the authors do not provide quantitative changes in


                                                                                                 27
        TSEP after semax administration, and its clinical relevance is unclear. Authors concluded
        that “no significant changes in TSEP were observed after a single intranasal
        administration of semax. This observation indicates that semax does not exhibit analgesic
        activity by itself. Additionally, limitations of this study include the small sample size, no
        blinding, no control, the absence of reporting of the actual scores or standard deviations
        for the scores of the MPST rating scales or TSEP. There was insufficient information for
        the MPST rating scales or TSEP that were used to inform the study endpoints in a
        population with trigeminal neuralgia. Furthermore, it appears that the authors assigned
        arbitrary units when they discussed their findings.

FDA was unable to find other references that discuss the use of semax-related BDSs for
trigeminal neuralgia.

             b. Whether the Product Compounded With This Bulk Drug Substance Is Intended
                To Be Used in a Serious or Life-Threatening Disease
Trigeminal neuralgia is a serious condition that causes pain that is severe and distressing and that
interferes with daily activity. It was reported that patients with trigeminal neuralgia experienced
an increased risk of anxiety and depression (Chong et al. 2023).

             c. Therapies That Have Been Used for the Condition(s) Under Consideration
There are FDA-approved drug products that treat the same medical condition as that proposed
for the semax-related compounded drug product(s). 55

Carbamazepine (Equetro), oral (NDA 021710) is indicated for the treatment of the pain
associated with trigeminal neuralgia. (https://nctr-crs.fda.gov/fdalabel/ui/spl-
summaries/criteria/579097). There are several oral carbamazepine dosage formulations, and the
above product and reference is an example of one of these formulations.

Professional society treatment guidelines also recommend the off-label use of FDA-approved
drug products, such as oxcarbazepine, lamotrigine, baclofen, gabapentin, and pregabalin for the
treatment of trigeminal neuralgia if carbamazepine is not effective. For patients who are
hospitalized with acute relapses, lidocaine nerve block, botulinum toxin, sumatriptan, phenytoin
or fosphenytoin might also be used (Chong et al. 2023).

             d. Conclusion for Trigeminal Neuralgia
There is insufficient evidence of effectiveness to support use of semax (free base) or semax
acetate for analgesia in patients with trigeminal neuralgia pain that is severe and distressing. The
results from only one small, uncontrolled, open-label study showed that semax was not effective
in resolving pain for the majority of subjects with trigeminal neuralgia in the study. Professional
society guidelines on the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia do not discuss semax-related BDSs.



55
  FDA considers the existence of FDA-approved or OTC monograph drug products to treat the same
condition as that proposed for the nomination relevant to FDA’s consideration of the effectiveness
criterion, to the extent there may be alternative therapies that have been demonstrated to be effective for
certain conditions. See 84 FR 4696.


                                                                                                          28
Trigeminal neuralgia is a serious condition and there are FDA-approved drug products for the
treatment of this condition.

Overall Conclusions on Effectiveness: There is insufficient evidence to support the
effectiveness for semax (free base) or semax acetate for cerebral ischemia, migraine, or
trigeminal neuralgia. Only two available references were available with insufficient details on
the design and conduct of the studies, and the available references demonstrated lack of
effectiveness and were limited by small sample size and lack of information about some relevant
clinical endpoints. Cerebral ischemia, migraine and trigeminal neuralgia are all serious
conditions and FDA-approved therapies for the acute treatment and prevention of these
conditions exist.

     D. Are There Concerns About the Safety of the Substance for Use in Compounding?

         1.   Nonclinical Assessment
The nominations included nonclinical information. Specifically, the nominations included a list
of 35 articles published in English describing pharmacological studies of semax. 56 In addition,
the nominations included an article describing some of the pharmacokinetic properties of semax
delivered via the intranasal ROA to rats (Shevchenko et al. 2006a). Although the article is
written in a foreign language, FDA identified in the publisher site (https://link.springer.com/) the
English version of the same article, which is also indexed in the Google Scholar database
(Shevchenko et al. 2006b). The nominations included an article describing the analgesic effects
of a different peptide, selank (Meshavkin et al. 2006), which is out of the scope of this evaluation
and is, therefore, not further discussed.

The following databases were consulted in preparation of this section: Drugs@FDA, Embase,
European Chemicals Agency, FDA’s Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) Notice Inventory,
Google, Google Scholar, National Institutes of Health’s dietary supplement label database,
National Toxicology Program website, Pharmapendium, PubMed, Society of Toxicology, USP,
and Web of Science.

              a. General Pharmacology of the Drug Substance
Semax is a synthetic heptapeptide analog of the ACTH 4-10 fragment (ACTH4-10), which is
devoid of the hormonal corticotropic and melanotropic properties but retains the neurobehavioral
properties of the full-length ACTH protein (Kolomin et al. 2013). The amino acid sequences of
ACTH4-10 and semax differ with respect to the three amino acids in the C-terminal domain




56
   Agapova et al. 2007a; Agapova et al. 2007b; Bakaeva et al. 2009; Bakhmet and Koplik 2012;
Boyarshinova et al. 2008; Cherkasova et al. 2002; Eremin et al. 2004; Eremin et al. 2005; Glazova et al.
2005; Grigorjeva and Lyapina 2010; Inozemtsev et al. 2013; Inozemtsev et al. 2016; Ivanova et al. 2003;
Ivanova et al. 2004; Ivanova et al. 2005; Ivanova et al. 2007; Kolik et al. 2014; Kopylova et al. 2003;
Koroleva et al. 1996; Lebedeva et al. 2018; Levitskaya et al. 2010; Lyapina et al. 2006; Malyshev et al.
2013; Manchenko et al. 2012; Medvedeva et al. 2014; Orlov et al. 1999; Romanova et al. 2006; Safarova
et al. 2002; Shevchenko et al. 2013; Slominsky et al. 2017; Solov’ev et al. 2016; Stavchansky et al. 2011;
Vlasova et al. 2009.


                                                                                                        29
(Figure 5). The C-terminal sequence Pro-Gly-Pro in semax is thought to increase the
heptapeptide stability to hydrolysis catalyzed by peptidases (Potaman et al. 1991a).

Figure 5. Amino Acid Sequences of Semax and ACTH4-10.




According to nonclinical studies, semax, like ACTH4-10, has multiple pharmacological properties.
In addition to acting as an analgesic, a neuroprotectant, and a neurotrophic agent, semax also
induces antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects in rodents (Bashkatova et al. 2001; Dolotov et
al. 2006; Severyanova et al. 2020; Silachev et al. 2009; Volodina et al. 2012). The paragraphs
that follow focus on the pharmacological properties of semax that are most closely associated
with the nominated clinical indications of cerebral ischemia and analgesia.

Semax and Cerebral Ischemia in Animal Models
In a study conducted in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia, semax reduced the ischemic
damage and prevented the development of cognitive deficits (Romanova et al. 2006).
Specifically, in this study, focal photothrombotic ischemia was induced in anesthetized rats that
received an intravenous (IV) injection of the photosensitizing dye Bengal rose and had their
surgically exposed cranial surface exposed to a cold light beam for 15 minutes. At 15 minutes
and 1 hour after the photostimulation, half of the rats were treated with semax (250 μg/kg,
intranasal [IN]) and the other half with vehicle (water; 7 μL, IN). The treatments were repeated
once a day for 6 more days. The control group consisted of untreated sham-operated rats. Eight
days after the photothrombosis, the infarcted brain areas were approximately 20% smaller in
semax-treated rats than vehicle-treated rats. Although semax-treated rats and vehicle-treated rats
had significantly reduced locomotor activity compared to control rats, semax-treated rats did not
present memory retention deficit in a passive avoidance task whereas water-treated rats did
(Romanova et al. 2006).

In a different study conducted in adult male rats with global cerebral ischemia induced by
bilateral carotid artery occlusion, semax also reduced the ischemic damage (Stavchansky et al.
2011). In this study, rats were treated via the intraperitoneal (IP) route with semax (100 μg/kg) or
saline 15 minutes, 1, 4, and 8 hours after the carotid occlusion. Half of the animals were
euthanized at 30 minutes and the other half at 24 hours post-occlusion. Histological assessment
revealed that vehicle-treated rats presented marked ischemic damage in the frontoparietal cortex
at 30 minutes post-occlusion and in the cerebral cortex, thalamus, mesencephalon, hippocampus,
cerebellum, and pons at 24 hours post-occlusion. Ischemic damage was characterized by large
numbers of neurons with nuclear condensation and shrinking of the cytoplasm. In addition to
reducing the ischemic damage, the treatment with semax increased the number of cells
expressing proliferating cell nuclear antigen, a DNA repair protein that is generally associated
with cell division, in the fourth ventricle and other brain regions (Stavchansky et al. 2011). These
findings led the authors to conclude that semax may be neuroprotective and may promote stem
cell neurodifferentiation (Stavchansky et al. 2011).


                                                                                                  30
Stavchansky and colleagues further reported that the capillaries in the cerebral cortex of semax
(100 μg/kg, IP)-treated ischemic rats appeared moderately dilated and filled by erythrocytes but
did not have the signs of stasis seen in the cerebral cortical blood vessels of saline-treated rats
30 minutes and 24 hours post-occlusion (Stavchansky et al. 2011). Considering these findings,
the authors proposed that the antithrombotic properties of semax might contribute to its
effectiveness in suppressing cerebral ischemic damage. However, the authors did not provide
direct evidence for semax-induced antithrombotic effects in ischemic rats. Direct evidence that
semax has anticoagulant and antithrombotic properties has been provided by studies conducted
in non-ischemic rats (Cherkasova et al. 2002; Cherkasova et al. 2001; Grigorjeva and Lyapina
2010; Lyapina et al. 2006).

Cherkasova and colleagues reported that intranasal administration of semax (1 mg/kg/day)
compared to saline to adult male rats for 5 days increased the anticoagulant and fibrinolytic
activities of the plasma (Cherkasova et al. 2002; Cherkasova et al. 2001). The increased levels of
total fibrinolytic activity, plasmin, and plasminogen were pharmacologically relevant as semax-
treated rats compared to saline-treated rats developed smaller thrombi in response to 1.5-hour
clamping of the jugular vein (Cherkasova et al. 2002; Cherkasova et al. 2001).

Grigorjeva and colleagues assessed the effects of semax on coagulation endpoints in rats exposed
to acute or chronic stress (Grigorjeva and Lyapina 2010). In this study, adult male rats treated
with saline (0.05 mL/day, 0.85% NaCl solution, IP) for 4 days and subjected to acute or chronic
immobilization stress presented a hypercoagulating phenotype characterized by shorter activated
partial thromboplastin time, shorter fibrinolytic activity, lower activity of plasminogen tissue
activator, and lower platelet aggregation compared to non-stressed rats. By contrast, adult male
rats treated with semax (1 mg/kg/day, IP) for 4 days and subjected to acute or chronic
immobilization stress presented a hypocoagulating phenotype characterized by longer partial
thromboplastin time, higher fibrinolytic activity, higher activity of plasminogen tissue activator,
and lower platelet aggregation compared to non-stressed rats (Grigorjeva and Lyapina 2010).

Considering the results of their study, Grigorjeva and Lyapina concluded that semax protected
the rats from the hypercoagulating effects of acute and repeated stress (Grigorjeva and Lyapina
2010). However, we note that semax-treated rats presented a hypocoagulating phenotype when
compared to control (non-stressed) rats. Because the study did not evaluate the dose-response
relationship for the effects of semax, it is unclear whether it would be possible to titrate semax
doses to reverse a hypercoagulating condition without creating a condition that could favor the
development of a bleeding event.

In a separate study, Lyapina and collaborators reported that, in vitro, semax was devoid of
anticoagulant effects (Lyapina et al. 2006). However, in line with previous findings, the authors
reported that in-vivo treatment of rats with semax (1 mg/kg, IN or IV) significantly increased
fibrin depolymerizing activity and tissue plasminogen activator and reduced (by ~35%) platelet
aggregation (Lyapina et al. 2006). In the same study, the shorter peptide segment Pro-Gly-Pro,
which is recognized as a semax metabolite (see the Pharmacokinetics section), was shown to
have anticoagulant properties both in vivo and vitro. It is possible that, in vivo, the anticoagulant
and antithrombotic effects of semax are due to its metabolites. The molecular mechanisms
accounting for the anticoagulant effects of semax and its metabolites remain unknown.




                                                                                                     31
It has been proposed that the effectiveness of semax in suppressing ischemic cerebral damage
could also be related to its antioxidant properties (Vlasova et al. 2009) and its ability to rapidly
modulate gene expression (Agapova et al. 2007a; Agapova et al. 2007b; Medvedeva et al. 2014).
In adult male rats treated with semax (50 μg/kg, IN), expression of nerve growth factor and
brain-derived neurotrophic factor increased significantly in different brain regions, including the
hippocampus, as early as 60 minutes after the treatment (Agapova et al. 2007a). The expression
of genes encoding growth factors was also found to be upregulated in the hippocampus at 3 and
24 hours after the induction of ischemia by middle carotid artery occlusion in rats treated with
semax (100 µg/kg, IP injection at 15 minutes, 1, 4, and 8 hours after the occlusion) compared to
saline (Medvedeva et al. 2014). Upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve
growth factor could be beneficial in the context of cerebral ischemia because both factors are
known for their antiapopotic and anti-inflammatory properties and for their ability to induce
neurogenesis and promote synaptic plasticity (Sims et al. 2022). The molecular mechanisms by
which semax regulates gene expression are unknown.

We note that nonclinical studies assessing the pharmacological effects of semax in cerebral
ischemia are limited in that they are generally restricted to a fixed dose of semax (100 μg/kg, IP,
in some studies or 250 μg/kg, IN, in others). As such, dose-response relationships for semax
delivered via different ROAs have not been established. Those studies also lacked an assessment
of the systemic exposure to semax needed to reduce cerebral ischemia. In addition, studies
assessing the antithrombotic effects of semax in vivo have been conducted with a fixed IN dose
of semax (1 mg/kg) that is 4 times higher than the IN dose shown to suppress ischemic brain
damage. In the absence of direct evidence that coagulation endpoints are reduced by semax in
animal models of ischemia, it is difficult to establish the relevance of the antithrombotic
properties of semax to the suppression of cerebral ischemia.

Semax and Pain
In rodents, semax administered via some ROAs has been shown to induce analgesia. For
instance, in one study, treatment of adult male rats with semax (1.5, 15, 50, or 500 μg/kg, IP)
dose dependently increased the pain threshold of the animals (measured as the pressure the
animals tolerated in their leg prior to withdrawing it). As the IP semax dose increased from 1.5 to
500 μg/kg, the magnitude and duration of the semax-induced analgesic effect increased and the
time for onset of the effect decreased (Manchenko et al. 2012). In the same study, the same
semax doses delivered intranasally were unable to induce analgesia (Manchenko et al. 2012).

In separate studies, the same research group assessed the analgesic effects of semax (50 μg/kg or
500 μg/kg, IP) in rats subjected to each of the following tests: (i) tail flick test, (ii) hind leg
compression, (iii) hot plate test, and (iv) paw-withdrawal test (Ivanova et al. 2003; Ivanova et al.
2007; Ivanova et al. 2004; Ivanova et al. 2005). In all studies, control groups consisted of rats
treated with an equivalent volume of vehicle. In all tests, rats treated with the highest IP dose of




                                                                                                  32
semax (500 μg/kg) consistently presented higher pain thresholds than saline-treated rats. 57 In the
four tests, the analgesic effects of semax were evident starting at approximately 15 minutes and
lasted for at least 60 minutes after the treatment.

In the study published in 2003, Ivanova and colleagues also assessed the analgesic effect of
semax in the acetic acid-induced writhing test in mice. In this test, mice were treated with semax
(50 μg/kg or 500 μg/kg, IP) or vehicle before receiving an IP injection of acetic acid (0.6%;
0.1 mL/10 g). Number of acetic acid-induced contractions of the abdominal wall (writhing), a
measure of pain, was significantly lower at 40-50 minutes after the semax treatment compared to
vehicle treatment (Ivanova et al. 2003). No dose-response relationship was noted in this test, as
the magnitude of the analgesic effect induced by the IP semax doses of 50 μg/kg and 500 μg/kg
was comparable (Ivanova et al. 2003).

The molecular mechanisms underlying the analgesic effects of semax are poorly understood. In
vitro, semax has been shown to inhibit the activity of enkephalinases, enzymes that catalyze the
hydrolysis of the endogenous opioids enkephalins, with an apparent potency of 10 μM (Kost et
al. 2001). Since enkephalinases are membrane-bound enzymes, they could represent the
molecular targets to which radiolabeled semax delivered intranasally to rats was shown to bind
with a dissociation constant (Kd) of approximately ~ 2.4 nM (Dolotov et al. 2006).
Enkephalinase inhibition leading to an increase in the concentrations of endogenous opioids
could contribute to the analgesic effect of semax. However, Ivanova and colleagues reported that
the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1 mg/kg, IP) did not prevent the analgesic effect of
semax, as assessed in the paw-withdrawal test in rats (Ivanova et al. 2005). Instead, the authors
provided evidence that the analgesic effect semax (50 or 500 μg/kg, IP) could not be detected in
rats that were pretreated with cyproheptadine (1 mg/kg, IP, 15 minutes before semax).
Considering that cyproheptadine acts as an antagonist at the serotonin 5-HT1a and 5-HT2a
receptors, the authors proposed that semax-induced analgesia is mediated, at least in part, via an
increase of serotoninergic signaling in the brain (Ivanova et al. 2005).

The proposal that semax-induced analgesia may be mediated by semax-induced increase of
serotoninergic signaling in the brain is supported by the finding that semax (0.15 or 0.6 mg/kg,
IP) administered to adult male C57/BL6 mice dose dependently increased extracellular striatal
levels of the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (Eremin et al. 2004; Eremin et al.
2005). However, semax does not appear to act selectively on the serotoninergic system because
treatment of mice with semax also potentiated amphetamine-induced dopamine release in the
striatum and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity (Eremin et al. 2005). This finding is
concerning because increased dopaminergic tone in the striatum is a response typically induced
by drugs of abuse such as cocaine (Volkow et al. 2006). At the time of this evaluation, the




57
  In the tail flick test, 4 cm of the end tail of the rats was submersed in hot water at 56°C, and the time it
took for animals to flick their tail was taken as a measure of pain threshold. In the hindleg compression
and the paw-withdrawal tests, pressure of defined force was applied to the leg or paw of the rats, and the
pressure force at which the rats withdrew their limb or paw was taken as a measure of pain threshold. In
the hot plate test, rats were placed on a hot plate warmed to 53°C, and the time for the animals to lick one
of their hind legs for the first time was taken as a measure of pain threshold.


                                                                                                            33
nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify nonclinical studies to demonstrate whether
semax has reinforcing and addictive properties to inform its abuse potential.

            b. Pharmacokinetics/Toxicokinetics
An in-vivo study assessed the blood and brain concentrations of semax in adult male Wistar rats
treated with radioactively labeled semax ([3H]-semax; 50 μg/kg, IV) (Potaman et al. 1991b). The
highest concentrations of semax measured in the brain represented approximately 0.005% of the
administered dose. The highest ratio of brain-to-blood semax concentrations was 0.24 and was
measured 10 minutes after the IV injection of [3H]-semax (Potaman et al. 1991b). The authors
hypothesized that an active transport mechanism and/or passive transmembrane diffusion
through the vascular epithelium, particularly in the circumventricular organs where the
endothelial is leaky, could contribute to the entry of semax in the brain (Potaman et al. 1991b).

A separate in-vivo study assessed the blood and brain concentrations of semax in rats
(unidentified sex, age, and strain) treated with [3H]-semax (50 μg/kg, IN) (Shevchenko et al.
2006b). The highest concentrations of semax in the brain were measured at 2 minutes after the
treatment (the first time point of blood collection and brain harvesting) and represented
approximately 0.072% of the administered dose [3H]-semax. The highest ratio of brain-to-blood
semax concentrations in rats treated intranasally with [3H]-semax was approximately 0.67
(Shevchenko et al. 2006b).

Both the percentage of the semax dose that reached the rat brain and the ratio of brain-to-blood
semax concentrations were considerably higher in rats treated intranasally than in rats treated
intravenously with [3H]-semax (Potaman et al. 1991b; Shevchenko et al. 2006b). The brain
delivery of peptides administered intranasally is thought to be facilitated, at least in part, by their
axonal transport through the direct pathway established by the olfactory receptor cells that are in
contact with both the nasal cavity and the olfactory bulb, the main olfactory relay center in the
brain (Lin et al. 2016; Spetter and Hallschmid 2015).

In-vitro studies reported that semax is quickly hydrolyzed in rat blood and brain tissue (Potaman
et al. 1991a; Shevchenko et al. 2013). In-vivo studies reported that the metabolites identified in
the blood of [3H]-semax-treated rats were generated by the sequential proteolytic removal of
amino acids from the N-terminal domain of semax (Potaman et al. 1991a; Shevchenko et al.
2006b). Figure 6 shows the amino acid sequences of semax metabolites identified in the brain
and serum of [3H]-semax-treated rats (Shevchenko et al. 2006b). The tripeptide proline-glycine-
proline was the main metabolite identified in the blood and brain taken from [3H]-semax-treated
rats (Shevchenko et al. 2006b). In rat serum, aminopeptidases and angiotensin-converting
enzyme are the main enzymes that catalyze the proteolytic degradation of semax (Potaman et al.
1993).




                                                                                                     34
Figure 6. Amino Acid Sequences of Semax and Its Metabolites [Adapted From Shevchenko
et al. 2006].




At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify studies
assessing the pharmacokinetic profile of semax delivered via the SC ROA.

             c. Acute Toxicity 58
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify acute
toxicity studies of semax.

             d. Repeat-Dose Toxicity 59
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify repeat-
dose toxicity studies of semax.

             e. Genotoxicity 60
At the time of this evaluation, FDA did not identify additional studies assessing the genotoxic
potential of semax.




58
   Acute toxicity refers to adverse effects observed following administration of a single dose of a
substance, or multiple doses given within a short period (approximately 24 hours). For more information
on general approaches for acute toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry M3(R2)
Nonclinical Safety Studies for the Conduct of Human Clinical Trials and Marketing Authorization for
Pharmaceuticals (January 2010), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/71542/download.
59
   Repeat-dose toxicity studies consist of in-vivo animal studies that seek to evaluate the toxicity of the
test substance when it is repetitively administered daily for an extended period. For more information on
general approaches for repeat-dose toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry M3(R2)
Nonclinical Safety Studies for the Conduct of Human Clinical Trials and Marketing Authorization for
Pharmaceuticals (January 2010), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/71542/download.
60
   The genotoxicity assessment battery usually consists of a gene mutagenicity assay (for single dose
trials) and a variety of clastogenicity/genotoxicity assays. To support multiple dose administration in
humans, additional genotoxicity testing assessment is usually conducted to detect chromosomal damage
in mammalian systems. For more information on general approaches for genotoxicity studies, please refer
to FDA’s guidance for industry S2(R1) Genotoxicity Testing and Data Interpretation for Pharmaceuticals
Intended for Human Use (June 2012), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/71980/download.


                                                                                                        35
             f. Developmental and Reproductive Toxicity 61
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify
nonclinical developmental and reproductive studies of semax.

             g. Carcinogenicity 62
The effects of long-term treatment with semax on the frequency and size of spontaneous
mammary tumors have been assessed in female SHK mice (Meshavkin et al. 2013). SHK mice
are reported to develop a high frequency of mammary tumors and have a considerably shorter
mean lifespan (~12.5 months) than other mouse strains, including CBA and C3HA (~21 months)
(Emanuel et al. 1976).

In the study by Meshavkin and collaborators, SHK female mice already had pronounced
mammary gland tumors when they were assigned to treatment with vehicle (saline, 0.2 mL/day,
IP; n=27) or semax (3 mg/kg/day, IP; n=16) 5 days/week until the end of their natural life. The
authors did not provide the age of the mice at start of treatment. However, it is likely that mice
were ~11 months old when their treatments started because: (i) the mean lifespan of saline-
treated mice in the study by Meshavkin and colleagues was ~44 days (Meshavkin et al. 2013),
and (ii) the mean lifespan of SHK mice is reported to be ~12.5 months (Emanuel et al. 1976).

The late-life treatment of SHK mice with semax significantly reduced the size of their mammary
gland tumors. Specifically, at end of life, the sizes of mammary gland tumors were 7.4±1.6 cm3
in semax-treated mice and 15.0±2.0 cm3 in saline-treated mice. The semax treatment also
prolonged the mean lifespan of SHK mice by ~68%. Although the authors concluded that semax
may have anticarcinogenic properties (Meshavkin et al. 2013), the data should be interpreted
with caution because: (i) the study tested a fixed dose of semax, and, as such, did not provide an
assessment of dose-response relationships, (ii) the study assessed the effects of semax only in
female (not male) mice, and (iii) the semax treatment was short lived with respect to the lifespan
of the animals.




61
   Developmental and reproductive toxicity studies are usually designed to assess the potential adverse
effects of a substance within a complete reproductive cycle, from conception to reproductive capacity in
subsequent generations, and to identify the potential effects of a substance on pre-, peri-, and postnatal
development. Developmental toxicity or teratogenicity refers to adverse effects (can include embryo-fetal
mortality, structural abnormalities, functional impairment, or alterations to growth) and can occur in pups
either as a result of the exposure of their parents to the substance, prior to the pups’ birth, or by direct
exposure of the pups to the substance after birth. For more information on general approaches for
reproductive and developmental toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry S5(R3)
Detection of Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity for Human Pharmaceuticals (May 2021),
available at https://www.fda.gov/media/148475/download.
62
   Studies that assess cancer risk in animals are used as predictive tools to evaluate the potential for drugs
to cause tumors when used by humans on a chronic basis. Carcinogenicity studies are conducted if the
clinical use is expected to be continuous for a minimum of 6 months of life, or if intermittent clinical use
is expected to total 6 months or more of life. For more information on general approaches for
carcinogenicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry S1B Testing for Carcinogenicity of
Pharmaceuticals (July 1997), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/71935/download.


                                                                                                            36
The study by Meshavink and colleagues is not adequately designed to assess the carcinogenic
potential of semax. In a typical nonclinical carcinogenic study, male and female rodents are
treated daily with the test article for a minimum of 2 years. As discussed by Haseman and
colleagues, rodent carcinogenicity studies in which treatments only last 12 to 18 months (instead
of ≥24 months) would be equivalent to evaluating human cancer in 30- to 50-year-old subjects
and would, therefore, result in markedly reduced sensitivity to detect the carcinogenic potential
of an exposure (Haseman et al. 2001). Considering the finding that female SHK mice with
growing mammary tumors lived for 73.7±10.5 days following the start of the semax treatment,
the mean duration of the treatment was shorter than 3 months.

In November 2022, FDA published the guidance entitled S1B(R1) Addendum to S1B Testing for
Carcinogenicity of Pharmaceuticals, which discusses the use of a weight-of-evidence analysis to
assess the human carcinogenic potential of pharmaceuticals. 63 This analysis, which takes into
account the primary and off-target mechanisms of action as well the potential genetic, hormonal,
and immunomodulatory effects of the test article in addition to its metabolic profile, may be used
in lieu of nonclinical carcinogenicity studies to inform the carcinogenic potential of the article.

At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify weight-of-
evidence analyses or nonclinical 2-year carcinogenicity studies to inform the carcinogenic
potential for semax.

Conclusions: From the nonclinical pharmacological perspective, semax is a substance that
exhibits pleiotropism. Acting through poorly understood mechanisms of action, semax in
rodents: (i) has neuroprotective and neurotrophic properties, (ii) acts as an anticoagulant and
antithrombotic, (iii) has analgesic properties, and (iv) induces antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like
effects. The nonclinical finding that the serotoninergic antagonist cyproheptadine inhibited
semax-induced analgesia in mice led to the proposal that the analgesic effect of semax depends,
at least in part, on semax-induced activation of the serotoninergic system. It is concerning,
however, that, in mice, semax also potentiated amphetamine-induced dopamine release in the
striatum because increased dopaminergic tone in the striatum is a response typically induced by
drugs of abuse such as cocaine. At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and
FDA did not identify published nonclinical toxicity studies to assess the pharmacokinetic profile
of semax via the nominated SC ROA and to inform the abuse potential and other safety
considerations for possible clinical uses of semax.

        2.   Human Safety
In addition to the references submitted by the nominator, the following databases were consulted
in the preparation of this section: PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews,
FAERS, ClinicalTrials.gov, professional healthcare organization websites, and various online
clinical references and websites. The clinical references discuss an active moiety the authors call
semax but these references do not specify whether the substance used was a free base or a salt.




63
  S1B(R1) Addendum to S1B Testing for Carcinogenicity of Pharmaceuticals: Guidance for Industry
(November 2022), available at https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-
documents/s1br1-addendum-s1b-testing-carcinogenicity-pharmaceuticals.


                                                                                                  37
Therefore, when discussing these references, the substance will be referred to as semax (the term
that was used by the authors).

             a. Pharmacokinetic Data
We were not able to find pharmacokinetic studies in humans following exposure to semax (free
base) or semax acetate via any ROA.

             b. Reported Adverse Reactions (FAERS, Case Reports and Anecdotal Cases
                Assessing Safety)
The Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology conducted a search of the FAERS database for
reports of adverse events (AEs) for semax-related BDSs, through December 3, 2025 64. The
search retrieved one FAERS report (#25343150). This was a direct report from a consumer. The
consumer reported that in May 2024 she experienced ocular pain and eye burning after using
Semax 0.1% nasal drops purchased online from a company called CosmicNootropic. The
consumer reported hospitalization following the exposure and that the eye pain had not resolved
as of the time of the report in May 2025. OSE also conducted two literature searches of PubMed
through February 27, 2024, and from February 27, 2024 through December 3, 2025, and did not
identify literature case reports of AEs in humans.

             c. Clinical Studies Assessing Safety
We were unable to find literature that discussed administration via subcutaneous injection ROA.
The only ROA discussed in the literature was intranasal. Therefore, assessment of safety for
semax was limited to the intranasal ROA. Based on two references submitted by the nominator
and six references found by FDA, semax has been administered to 33-47 healthy adults 65, 69
adults with medical conditions (including chronic ischemic brain disease, pain due to migraine
and trigeminal neuralgia, and peptic ulcer), and 451 children with either depression or
tics/Tourette Syndrome. The references do not discuss the type of device that was used to
administer the substance via this ROA. Additional information regarding critical attributes of the
device to assess product safety and effectiveness are discussed in Section II.A.1.e and
Section I.A.2.e. Doses were 0.5 mg/kg once, 1 mg daily for 2 days, 600 mg daily for 10 days, or
2-4 drops per nostril three times a day for 10 days. Three of the references were professional
society meeting abstracts and details of the full studies conducted in all the pediatric subjects and
in adults with chronic ischemic brain disease were not available. In one reference the authors
report that no AEs were observed 66 and in the other references AEs were not discussed. 67 One
reference (Cherkasova et al. 2002) discussed possible anti-thrombotic properties of semax and
this raises concern about the risk of bleeding, particularly in certain populations at risk for


64
   Compounders under section 503A of the FD&C Act generally do not report adverse events to FDA.
FDA encourages compounders, health care professionals, and consumers to report adverse events and
product quality concerns associated with compounded drugs to FDA’s MedWatch Adverse Event
Reporting program. Unless an adverse event report is submitted to FDA, the Agency may not be aware of
adverse events associated with a product compounded under section 503A.
65
   It is unclear if the same subjects were used in Lebedeva et al. 2018 and Panikratova et al. 2020.
66
   Koroleva et al. 1996.
67
   Cherkasova et al. 2002, Kaplan et al. 1996, Ivanikov et al. 2002, Proskurina et al. 2018, Aminova et al.
2016, Lebedeva et al. 2018, Panikratova et al. 2020.


                                                                                                         38
bleeding or if combined with other medications that increase bleeding risk. In several of the
references, semax was administered concomitantly with other medications or therapies 68, making
it difficult to determine the contribution of semax to any effects seen. Details of the individual
studies can be found in Table 3 below.

Table 3. Summary of References With Safety Information.
    Reference            Population                         Intervention                               AE
    Cherkasova et al.    Subjects with chronic              IN semax 600 mg daily for 10 days          AEs not
    2002a, b             ischemic brain diseased                                                       discussed
    Koroleva et al.      37 adults with pain                IN semax 0.5 mg/kg given once              Authors
    1996b                (trigeminal neuralgia, dental                                                 reported
                         plexalgia, and migraine)                                                      no AEs
    Kaplan et al.1996    19 healthy adult males             IN semax 1 mg (16 mcg/kg) daily            AEs not
                                                            for 2 days or IN semax 0.25 mg             discussed
                                                            given once
    Ivanikov et al.      32 adults with peptic ulcer        Semax 1% solution, 2-4 drops per           AEs not
    2002                                                    nostril TID for 10 days + basic            discussed
                                                            therapy (omeprazole 20 mg BID +
                                                            denol 20 mg TID + socolseril 2 IM)
                                                            vs. basic therapy only
    Proskurina et al.    120 children ages 12-14 years      Semax 0.1% + cognitive behavioral          AEs not
    2018a                with depression                    therapy + low-power physiotherapy          discussed
                                                            (electromagnetic radiation of
                                                            millimeter range)
    Aminova et al.       331 children with tics and         Encephabol + semax + neuroleptics          AEs not
    2016a                Tourette Syndrome                                                             discussed
    Lebedeva et al.      14 healthy adults                  IN semax (1.2 mg)                          AEs not
    2018                                                                                               discussed
    Panikratova et al.   14 healthy adults                  IN semax (1.2 mg)                          AEs not
    2020c                                                                                              discussed
a
  These references were meeting abstracts and full information about the studies were not available.
b
  These references were submitted by the nominators.
c
  The subjects who received semax treatment in this study appear to be very similar to those subjects who received
semax in Lebedeva et al. 2018. It is unclear if the same subjects were used in both studies.
d
  The authors did not specify the number of subjects in this abstract.

                d. Other Safety Information (e.g., Relevant Safety Information From Other
                   Regulatory Agencies as Appropriate)
No additional safety information from other regulatory agencies was found.

Immunogenicity and Aggregation Concerns
FDA has issued guidance regarding immunogenicity assessment for therapeutic protein
products. 69 The guidance describes immunogenicity as the propensity of a therapeutic protein
product to generate immune responses to itself and to related proteins including endogenous


68
  Ivanikov et al. 2002, Proskurina et al. 2018, Aminova et al. 2016.
69
  See FDA’s guidance for industry Immunogenicity Assessment for Therapeutic Protein Products
(August 2014) at https://www.fda.gov/media/85017/download.


                                                                                                                   39
proteins or peptides, or to induce immunologically related adverse clinical events. Although this
guidance addresses therapeutic protein products, the concerns about immunogenicity are also
relevant to peptides (such as semax (free base) and semax acetate), which can similarly elicit an
immunogenic response; this immunogenic response may be enhanced when peptides are given
via the SC or nasal spray ROA.

The consequences of triggering an immune response may range from antibody responses with no
apparent clinical manifestations to life-threatening and catastrophic reactions. Such outcomes are
often unpredictable in patients administered therapeutic protein or peptide products. One possible
consequence of the development of an immune response is the development of neutralizing
antibody activity that may lead to loss of efficacy or even result in the neutralization of the
activity of the endogenous peptide counterpart.

In addition, compared to small molecule APIs, peptides are distinct because they may have an
inherent tendency to aggregate. Aggregation refers to the processes through which peptides
associate into larger species consisting of multiple peptide chains. Aggregates can be highly
ordered or amorphous and the formation can be reversible or irreversible (Zapadka et al. 2017).
Peptides with as few as two amino acids have been shown to aggregate (Frederix et al. 2011).
Aggregates can impact the pharmacology of the peptide. In addition, aggregation is a risk factor
in immunogenicity and for decreased pharmacotherapeutic effect of the drug product due to
effects on bioavailability, formation of precipitates, or anti-drug antibody production (Ratanji et
al. 2014).

The nominators did not provide, and FDA did not identify clinical studies assessing
immunogenicity or aggregation of semax (free base) or semax acetate. Although semax (free
base) and semax acetate consist of seven amino acids, FDA is concerned about their potential
for immunogenicity when administered by an injection ROA as proposed due to the potential for
aggregation as well as potential peptide-related impurities. Based on available information there
are insufficient data to conclude that semax (free base) or semax acetate does not present these
risks.

             e. Therapies That Have Been Used for the Condition(s) Under Consideration
There are FDA-approved drug products and/or OTC monograph drug products that treat the
same medical condition as that proposed for the semax-related compounded drug product(s) 70.
See the lists of FDA-approved products for each proposed use in Sections II.C.1.c, II.C.2.c, and
II.C.3.c.

Conclusions: There is insufficient clinical information to characterize the safety profile of semax
(free base) or semax acetate. We were not able to find pharmacokinetic studies in humans
following exposure to semax (free base) or semax acetate via any ROA. There are no safety data
for semax (free base) and semax acetate administered by the proposed SC ROA. The only ROA
discussed in the literature was intranasal. It is not clear which BDS was used in the clinical


70
  FDA considers the existence of FDA-approved or OTC monograph drug products to treat the same
condition as that proposed for the nomination relevant to FDA’s consideration of the safety criterion, to
the extent there may be therapies that have been demonstrated to be safe under the conditions of use set
forth in the approved labeling. See 84 FR 4696.


                                                                                                            40
studies as the references do not specify whether the semax used was a free base or a salt form
(such as semax acetate).

Based on available clinical information for semax (free base) and semax acetate, the use of
semax-related bulk drug substances in compounding may raise safety concerns. Most of the
references did not discuss safety. One reference (Cherkasova et al. 2002) discussed possible anti-
thrombotic properties of semax and this raises concern about the risk of bleeding, particularly in
certain populations at risk for bleeding or if combined with other medications that increase
bleeding risk. Compounded drugs do not include labeling that would adequately warn physicians
and patients of such risks.

The nominators did not provide, and FDA did not identify clinical studies assessing
immunogenicity or aggregation of semax (free base) or semax acetate. Although semax (free
base) and semax acetate consists of seven amino acids, FDA is concerned about their potential
for immunogenicity when administered by an injection ROA as proposed due to the potential for
aggregation as well as potential peptide-related impurities.Based on available information there
are insufficient data to conclude that semax (free base) or semax acetate does not present these
risks.

There are currently available FDA-approved drugs for treatment and prevention of cerebral
ischemia, migraine, and trigeminal neuralgia.

III. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION
We have balanced the criteria described in section II above to evaluate semax (free base) and
semax acetate for the 503A Bulks List. After considering the information currently available, a
balancing of the criteria weighs against semax (free base) or semax acetate being placed on
that list based on the following:

1. Conclusions on the physical and chemical characterization for each semax-related BDS,
   semax (free base) and semax acetate, are included in subsections 1.1 and 1.2.

   1.1.
   Semax (free base) is reported to be a heptapeptide. As reported in the literature, semax (free
   base) is expected to be stable under reported storage conditions (below -20°C)

   Semax (free base) is considered to be not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
   characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
   established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) BDS
   specific quality control attributes, including impurities, aggregates, bacterial endotoxins and
   microbial bioburden testing, were not found in the publicly available scientific literature and
   lack of CoA in the nominations which are offered as evidence to establishing identity, purity,
   and impurity profiles of the substance of semax (free base) delivered via the SC and
   intranasal spray ROAs. The limited information related to critical characterization data is
   particularly important for immunogenicity. As discussed in Section II.D.2.d., FDA is
   concerned about the potential for immunogenicity of semax (free base) when formulated in
   an injectable or intranasal spray dosage forms due to the potential for aggregation as well as
   potential peptide-related impurities, as discussed in Section II.A.1.c. We also note that the


                                                                                                  41
   stability, pharmacological activity, and immunogenic properties of peptides are highly
   sensitive to the manufacturing process and quality attributes of the compounded/finished
   drug product.

   In addition, FDA would have strong concerns about the use of this BDS in the proposed
   compounded nasal spray solution product due to lack of information about container closer
   system, including container, closer, and pump – all of which are relevant to the CQAs for the
   proposed product and would affect how the BDS is delivered via this product.

   1.2.
   Semax acetate is reported to be an acetate salt of semax (free base). As reported in the
   literature, semax acetate is expected to be stable under reported storage conditions.

   Semax acetate is not well-characterized from the physical and chemical characterization
   perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow established
   chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) certain critical
   characterization data specific to semax acetate (including impurities, aggregates, microbial
   bioburden and/or bacterial endotoxin) were not found in the publicly available scientific
   literature, and the CoAs provided, which were offered as evidence to establishing identity,
   purity, and impurity profiles of the substance, lacked specific tests (including impurities,
   aggregates, microbial and bacterial endotoxins). The limited information related to critical
   characterization data is particularly important for immunogenicity. As discussed in
   Section II.D.2.d., FDA is concerned about the potential for immunogenicity of semax acetate
   when formulated in an injectable dosage form for SC administration as well as in intranasal
   spray dosage form due to the potential for aggregation as well as potential peptide-related
   impurities, as discussed in Section II.A.2.c. The nominations did not include, and FDA has
   not identified, information about semax acetate to suggest that this substance does not present
   these risks. Therefore, we cannot rule out potential immunogenicity issues associated with
   peptide and peptide-related impurities aggregates. In addition, it is difficult to evaluate how
   the physicochemical characteristics of semax acetate, especially the water solubility of semax
   acetate, will impact on the performance of the proposed injectable and intranasal spray
   products due to lack of water solubility data for semax acetate. We also note that the stability,
   pharmacological activity, and immunogenic properties of peptides are highly sensitive to the
   manufacturing process and quality attributes of the compounded/finished drug product.

   In addition, FDA would have strong concerns about the use of this BDS in the proposed
   compounded nasal spray solution product due to lack of information about container closer
   system, including container, closer, and pump – all of which are relevant to the CQAs for the
   proposed product and would affect how the BDS is delivered via this product.

2. It is often unclear whether the semax discussed in the sources considered for an
   understanding of historical use in compounding is the salt form or the free base. Semax
   injection and intranasal products are widely marketed in the US through health/wellness
   clinics, medical concierge services, functional and regenerative medicine clinics, and online
   retailers for anxiety, depression, attention/memory improvement, ischemic events/stroke,
   nerve regeneration, diabetic neuropathy, ADHD, opioid withdrawal, ALS, Parkinson’s
   disease, Alzheimer’s disease, dys-circulatory encephalopathy, optic nerve atrophy, pain, and



                                                                                                 42
   gastric protection. The extent to which semax has been used in compounding is unclear.
   Semax is a registered drug in Russia and is available as 0.1% and 1% nasal drops.

3. From the nonclinical pharmacological perspective, semax is a substance that exhibits
   pleiotropism. Acting through poorly understood mechanisms of action, semax in rodents: (i)
   has neuroprotective and neurotrophic properties, (ii) acts as an anticoagulant and
   antithrombotic, (iii) has analgesic properties, and (iv) induces antidepressant- and anxiolytic-
   like effects. The nonclinical finding that the serotoninergic antagonist cyproheptadine
   inhibited semax-induced analgesia in mice led to the proposal that the analgesic effect of
   semax depends, at least in part, on semax-induced activation of the serotoninergic system. It
   is concerning, however, that, in mice, semax also potentiated amphetamine-induced
   dopamine release in the striatum because increased dopaminergic tone in the striatum is a
   response typically induced by drugs of abuse such as cocaine. At the time of this evaluation,
   the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify published nonclinical toxicity studies
   to assess the pharmacokinetic profile of semax via the nominated SC ROA and to inform the
   abuse potential and other safety considerations for possible clinical uses of semax.

   There is insufficient clinical information to characterize the clinical safety profile of semax
   (free base) or semax acetate. We were not able to find pharmacokinetic studies in humans
   following exposure to semax (free base) or semax acetate via any ROA. There are no safety
   data for semax (free base) and semax acetate administered by the proposed SC ROA. The
   only ROA discussed in the literature was intranasal. It is not clear which BDS was used in
   the clinical studies as the references do not specify whether the semax used was a free base
   or a salt form (such as semax acetate).

   Based on available clinical information for semax (free base) and semax acetate, the use of
   semax-related bulk drug substances in compounding may raise safety concerns. Most of the
   references did not discuss safety. One reference (Cherkasova et al. 2002) discussed possible
   anti-thrombotic properties of semax and this raises concern about the risk of bleeding,
   particularly in certain populations at risk for bleeding or if combined with other medications
   that increase bleeding risk. Compounded drugs do not include labeling that would adequately
   warn physicians and patients of such risks.

   The nominators did not provide, and FDA did not identify clinical studies assessing
   immunogenicity or aggregation of semax (free base) or semax acetate. Although semax (free
   base) and semax acetate consists of seven amino acids, FDA is concerned about their
   potential for immunogenicity when administered by an injection ROA as proposed due to the
   potential for aggregation as well as potential peptide-related impurities. Based on available
   information there are insufficient data to conclude that semax (free base) or semax acetate
   does not present these risks.

   There are currently available FDA-approved drugs for treatment and prevention of cerebral
   ischemia, migraine, and trigeminal neuralgia.

4. There is insufficient evidence to support the effectiveness for semax (free base) or semax
   acetate for cerebral ischemia, migraine, or trigeminal neuralgia. Only two available
   references with insufficient details on the design and conduct of the studies were available,



                                                                                                   43
   and the available references demonstrated lack of effectiveness and were limited by small
   sample size, and lack of information about some relevant clinical endpoints. Cerebral
   ischemia, migraine and trigeminal neuralgia are all serious conditions and FDA-approved
   therapies for the acute treatment and prevention of these conditions exist.

On balance, the physicochemical characterization, information on historical use, lack of evidence
of effectiveness, and safety information identified for both semax (free base) and semax acetate
weigh against them being added to the 503A Bulks List. In particular, FDA’s proposal is based
on the fact that semax (free base) and semax acetate are not well characterized from a
physiochemical perspective due to lack of certain critical characterization data specific to semax
forms regarding lack of endotoxin data for injectable routes of administration and information to
indicate how an appropriate container and pump for an intranasal spray product would be
selected and qualified. There is a lack of information on the safety profile for semax (free base)
and semax acetate where the use of semax-related bulk drug substances in compounding may
raise safety concerns as discussed above. In addition, FDA also did not identify information that
addresses additional concerns related to potential immunogenicity risk. We have insufficient
evidence of effectiveness to support the use of semax-related BDSs as a treatment for cerebral
ischemia, migraine and trigeminal neuralgia. The lack of evidence of effectiveness discussed
above and the existence of FDA-approved drugs to treat most of these conditions weighs against
semax-related BDSs being added to the 503A Bulks List. Accordingly, we propose not adding
semax (free base) or semax acetate to the 503A Bulks List.




                                                                                                44
IV. REFERENCES
Agapova, TY, YV Agniullin, M Shadrina, S Shram, P Slominsky, S Lymborska and N
Myasoedov, 2007a, Neurotrophin Gene Expression in Rat Brain under the Action of Semax, an
Analogue of ACTH4-10, Neurosci Lett, 417(2):201-205.

Agapova TY, YV Agniullin, D Silachev, M Shadrina, P Slominsky, S Shram, S Limborskaya
and N Myasoedov, 2007b, Expression Changes Caused by the Peptide Semax in the Intracellular
Signal Pathway Genes in Rat Hippocampus, Dokl Biochem Biophys, 417(1):334-336.

Ailani, J, R Burch and M Robbins, 2021, The American Headache Society Consensus Statement:
Update on integrating new migraine treatments into clinical practice, Headache, 61(7):1021-
1039.

Aminova, D, 2016, Cognitive Impairments in Children with Tic Disorders and Tourette
Syndrome, Mov Dis, 31, Supp 2, Abstract # 966:S1-S697

Bakaeva, Z, K Baglikova, P Klimova, L Andreeva and G Samonina, 2009, The Comparison of
Gastroprotective Properties of Semax and Its Metabolites, Mosc Univ Biol Sci Bull, 64:137-140.

Bakhmet, A and E Koplik, 2012, Antistress Effect of Semax in the Course of Recovery of Spleen
Lymphoid Structures after the Stress in Rats with Different Behavioral Activity, Bull Exp Biol
Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 153:661-663.

Bashkatova, VG, VB Koshelev, OE Fadyukova, AA Alexeev, AF Vanin, KS Rayevsky, IP
Ashmarin and DM Armstrong, 2001, Novel Synthetic Analogue of ACTH 4-10 (Semax) but Not
Glycine Prevents the Enhanced Nitric Oxide Generation in Cerebral Cortex of Rats with
Incomplete Global Ischemia, Brain Res, 894(1):145-149.

Boyarshinova, O, O Perepelkina, N Markina and I Poletaeva, 2008, Audiogenic Epilepsy in
Young Mice of Different Strains after Neonatal Semax Treatment, Bull Exp Biol Med (USSR)
(Engl Transl), 146(1):86.

Broderick, J, O Adeoye, J Elm, 2017, The Evolution of the Modified Rankin Scale and Its Use in
Future Stroke Trials, Stroke, 48(7):2007-2012.

Cherkasova, K, I Ashmarin, A Kubatiev and V Skvortsova, 2002, Neuropeptide Semax –
Effective Antithrombotic Drug, Eur Neuropsychopharmacol, 12(Supp 3):406-407.

Cherkasova, K, L Lyapina and I Ashmarin, 2001, Comparative Study of Modulatory Effects of
Semax and Primary Proline-Containing Peptides on Hemostatic Reactions, Bull Exp Biol Med
(USSR) (Engl Transl), 132:625-626.

Chong M, A Bahra and J Zakrzewsja, 2023, Guidelines for the Management of Trigeminal
Neuralgia, Cleveland Clin J Med, 90(6):355-362.




                                                                                            45
Deigin, VI, EA Poluektova, AG Beniashvili, SA Kozin and YM Poluektov, 2022, Development
of Peptide Biopharmaceuticals in Russia, Pharmaceutics, 14(4): 716.

DeSai, C and A Shapshack, 2023, Cerebral Ischemia, StatPearls, NCBI Bookshelf, National
Library of Medicine, National Institute of Health: 1-12.

Dolotov, OV, EA Karpenko, LS Inozemtseva, TS Seredenina, NG Levitskaya, J Rozyczka, EV
Dubynina, EV Novosadova, LA Andreeva and LY Alfeeva, 2006, Semax, an Analog of ACTH
(4-10) with Cognitive Effects, Regulates BDNF and TRKb Expression in the Rat Hippocampus,
Brain Res, 1117(1):54-60.

Emanuel, N, L Obukhova, T Bunto and V D'yakova, 1976, Kinetics of Survival and
Experimental Determination of the Aging Rate, Biol Bull Acad Sci USSR, 3(4-6):653-657.

Eremin, K, V Kudrin, I Grivennikov, N Miasoedov and K Rayevsky, 2004, Effects of Semax on
Dopaminergic and Serotoninergic Systems of the Brain, Dokl Biol Sci, 394(1):1-3.

Eremin, KO, VS Kudrin, P Saransaari, SS Oja, IA Grivennikov, NF Myasoedov and KS
Rayevsky, 2005, Semax, an ACTH (4-10) Analogue with Nootropic Properties, Activates
Dopaminergic and Serotoninergic Brain Systems in Rodents, Neurochem Res, 30(12):1493-
1500.

Frederix, PW, RV Ulijn, NT Hunt and T Tuttle, 2011, Virtual Screening for Dipeptide
Aggregation: Toward Predictive Tools for Peptide Self-Assembly, J Phys Chem Lett,
2(19):2380-2384.

Glazova, NY, N Levitskaya and L Andreeva, 2005, P. 5.013 Study of Neurotropic Effects
Ofsemax Analogues Depending on Their Structure, Eur Neuropsychopharmacol, (15):S207.

Grigorjeva, M and L Lyapina, 2010, Anticoagulation and Antiplatelet Effects of Semax under
Conditions of Acute and Chronic Immobilization Stress, Bull Exp Biol Med (USSR) (Engl
Transl), 149(1):44-47.

Gusev, E, M Martynov, E Kostenko, L Petrova and S Bobyreva, 2018, The Efficacy of Semax in
the Treatment of Patients at Different Stages of Ischemic Stroke, Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S
Korsakova, 118 (3. Vyp.2): 61.

Gusev, E, V Skvortsova and E Chukanova, 2005, Semax in Prevention of Disease Progress and
Development of Exacerbations in Patients with Cerebrovascular Insufficiency, Zh Nevrol
Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova, 105(2):35-40.

Gusev, E, V Skvortsova, N Miasoedov, V Nezavibat’ko, E Zhuravleva and A Vanichkin, 1997,
Effectiveness of Semax in Acute Period of Hemispheric Ischemic Stroke (A Clinical and
Electrophysiological Study) Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova / Ministerstvo
zdravookhraneniia i meditsinskoĭ promyshlennosti Rossiĭskoĭ Federatsii, Vserossiĭskoe
obshchestvo nevrologov [i] Vserossiĭskoe obshchestvo psikhiatrov. 15:26–34.




                                                                                             46
Inozemtsev, A, A Agapitova, S Bokieva, N Levitskaya, A Kamenskii and N Myasoedov, 2013,
Semax Prevents Functional Impairments of Avoidance Response in Rats, Dokl Biol Sci,
448(1):1.

Inozemtsev, A, S Bokieva, O Karpukhina, K Gumargalieva, A Kamensky and N Myasoedov,
2016, Semax Prevents Learning and Memory Inhibition by Heavy Metals, Dokl Biol Sci,
468:112-114.

Ivanikov I, M Brekhova, G Samonina, N Myasoedov and I Ashmarin, 2002, Therapy of Peptic
Ulcer with Semax Peptide, Bull Exp Biol Med, 134 (1): 73-74.

Ivanova, D, N Levitskaya, L Andreeva, LY Alfeeva, A Kamenskii and N Myasoedov, 2003, The
Effect of Semax on Animal Pain Sensitivity in Various Experimental Models, Dokl Biol Sci,
388:5-8.

Ivanova, D, N Levitskaya, L Andreeva, A Kamenskii and N Myasoedov, 2007, Comparative
Study of Analgesic Potency of ACTH 4-10 Fragment and Its Analog Semax, Bull Exp Biol Med
(USSR) (Engl Transl), 143:5-8.

Ivanova, D, D Vilensky, N Levitskaya, L Andreeva and A Kamensky, 2004, P. 2.16 ACTH (4-
10) Analogue Semax Attenuates Opioid-Induced Analgesia, Eur Neuropsychopharmacol,
(14):S32-S33.

Ivanova, D, D Vilensky, N Levitskaya, L Andreeva and A Kamensky, 2005, P. 4.037 Study of
Mechanisms of the ACTH (4-10) Analogue Semax Analgesic Activity, Eur
Neuropsychopharmacol, (15):S192-S193.

Johnston, S, M Nguyen-Huynh, M Schwarz, K Fuller, C Williams and S Josephson, 2006,
National Stroke Association Guidelines for the Management of Transient Ischemic Attacks, Ann
Neurol, 60:301-313.

Kaplan, A, A Kochetovaa, V Nezavibathko, T Rjasina and I Ashmarin, 1996, Synthetic ACTH
Analogue Semax Displays Nootropic-Like Activity in Humans, Neurosci Res Comm, 19(2):
115-123.

Kleindorfer, D, A Towfighi, S Chaturvedi, K Cockroft, J Gutierrez, D Lombardi-Hill, H Kamel,
W. Kernan, S Kittner, E Leira, O Lennon, J Meschia, T Nguyen, P Pollak and P Santangeli,
2021, 2021 Guideline for the Prevention of Stroke in Patients With Stroke and Transient
Ischemic Attack, Stroke, 52(7):e364-467.

Kolik, L, A Nadorova and M Kozlovskaya, 2014, Efficacy of Peptide Anxiolytic Selank During
Modeling of Withdrawal Syndrome in Rats with Stable Alcoholic Motivation, Bull Exp Biol
Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 157:52-55.

Kolomin, T, M Shadrina, P Slominsky, S Limborska and N Myasoedov, 2013, A New
Generation of Drugs: Synthetic Peptides Based on Natural Regulatory Peptides, Neurosci Med,
4(04):223.




                                                                                              47
Kopylova, G, E Smirnova, LT Sanzhieva, B Umarova, T Lelekova and G Samonina, 2003,
Glyprolines and Semax Prevent Stress-Induced Microcirculatory Disturbances in the Mesentery,
Bull Exp Biol Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 136:441-443.

Koroleva, M, E Meizerov, V Nezavibat'ko, A Kamenskii, V Dubynin and YB Yakovlev, 1996,
Analgesic Action of the New Drug Semax, Bull Exp Biol Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 122:1107-
1109.

Kost, N, OY Sokolov, M Gabaeva, I Grivennikov, L Andreeva, N Myasoedov and A Zozulya,
2001, Semax and Selank Inhibit the Enkephalin-Degrading Enzymes of Human Serum, Russian J
Bioorg Chem, 27(3):156-159.

Lebedeva, I, YR Panikratova, OY Sokolov, D Kupriyanov, A Rumshiskaya, N Kost and N
Myasoedov, 2018, Effects of Semax on the Default Mode Network of the Brain, Bull Exp Biol
Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 165(5):653-656.

Levitskaya, N, D Vilenskii, E Sebentsova, L Andreeva, A Kamensky and N Myasoedov, 2010,
Influence of Semax on the Emotional State of White Rats in the Norm and against the
Background of Cholecystokinin-Tetrapeptide Action, Biol Bull, 37:186-192.

Lin, T, E Liu, H He, MC Shin, C Moon, VC Yang and Y Huang, 2016, Nose-to-Brain Delivery
of Macromolecules Mediated by Cell-Penetrating Peptides, Acta Pharm Sin B, 6(4):352-358.

Lyapina, L, V Pastorova, TY Obergan, G Samonina, I Ashmarin and N Myasoedov, 2006,
Comparison of Anticoagulant Effects of Regulatory Proline-Containing Oligopeptides.
Specificity of Glyprolines, Semax, and Selank and Potential for Their Practical Application, Biol
Bull, 33:153-161.

Malyshev, A, E Razumkina, V Dubynin and N Myasoedov, 2013, Semax Corrects Brain
Dysfunction Caused by Prenatal Introduction of Valproic Acid, Dokl Biochem Sci, 450(1):126.

Manchenko, D, NY Glazova, N Levitskaya, L Andreeva, A Kamenskii and N Myasoedov, 2012,
The Nootropic and Analgesic Effects of Semax Given Via Different Routes, Neurosci Behav
Physiol, 42:264-270.

Medvedeva, EV, VG Dmitrieva, OV Povarova, SA Limborska, VI Skvortsova, NF Myasoedov
and LV Dergunova, 2014, The Peptide Semax Affects the Expression of Genes Related to the
Immune and Vascular Systems in Rat Brain Focal Ischemia: Genome-Wide Transcriptional
Analysis, BMC Genomics, 15:1-12.

Meshavkin, V, N Kost, OY Sokolov, YA Zolotarev, N Myasoedov and A Zozulya, 2006,
Naloxone-Blocked Depriming Effect of Anxiolytic Selank on Apomorphine-Induced Behavioral
Manifestations of Hyperfunction of Dopamine System, Bull Exp Biol Med (USSR) (Engl
Transl), 142:598-600.

Meshavkin, VK, NV Kost, OY Sokolov, LA Andreeva and NF Myasoedov, 2013, The Influence
of Oligopeptides on Spontaneous Carcinogenesis in Mice, Dokl Biol Sci, 449:79-81.




                                                                                               48
Miasoedova, N, V Skvortsova, E Nasonov, E Zhuravleva, I Grivennikov, E Arsen’eva and I
Sukhanov, 1999, Investigation of Mechanisms of Neuroprotective Effect of Semax in Acute
Period of Ischemic Stroke, Zhurnal nevrologii i psikhiatrii imeni SS Korsakova / Ministerstvo
zdravookhraneniia i meditsinskoĭ promyshlennosti Rossiĭskoĭ Federatsii, Vserossiĭskoe
obshchestvo nevrologov [i] Vserossiĭskoe obshchestvo psikhiatrov, 15:15-19.

Orlov, A, A Khomutov, I Mukhina, YB Zimin, S Parin and D Kozin, 1999, Effect of Semax and
Semax-Heparin Mixture on Isolated Heart Activity after Total Ischemia in Rats, Bull Exp Biol
Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 128:1084-1086.

Panikratova, YR, IS Lebedeva, OY Sokolov, AD Rumshiskaya, DA Kupriyanov, NV Kost and
NF Myasoedov, 2020, Functional Connectomic Approach to Studying Selank and Semax
Effects, Dok Biol Sci: Proc Acad Sci USSR, Biol Sci Sec, 490(1): 9-11.

Ponomareva-Stepnaya, MA, VN Nezavibat'ko, LV Antonova, LA Andreeva, LY Alfeeva, VN
Potaman, AA Kamenskii and IP Ashmarin, 1984, An Analog of ACTH4-10 – A Long-Action
Stimulator of Learning, Pharm Chem J, 18: 445-450.

Potaman, V, L Alfeeva, A Kamensky, N Levitzkaya and V Nezavibatko, 1991a, N-Terminal
Degradation of ACTH (4–10) and Its Synthetic Analog Semax by the Rat Blood Enzymes, Bioch
Biophys Res Comm, 176(2):741-746.

Potaman, VN, LY Alfeeva, AA Kamensky and VN Nezavibatko, 1993, Degradation of
ACTH/MSH(4-10) and Its Synthetic Analog Semax by Rat Serum Enzymes: An Inhibitor Study,
Peptides, 14(3):491-495.

Potaman, V, L Antonova, V Dubynin, D Zaitzev, A Kamensky, N Myasoedov and V
Nezavibatko, 1991b, Entry of the Synthetic ACTH (4-10) Analogue into the Rat Brain Following
Intravenous Injection, Neurosci Lett, 127(1):133-136.

Powers W, A Rabinstein, T Ackerson, O Adeoye, N Bambakidis, K Becker, J Biller, M Brown,
B Demaerschalk, B Hoh, E Jauch, C Kidwell, T Leslie-Mazwi, B Ovboagele, P Scott, K Sheth,
A Southerland, D Summers and D Tirschwell, 2019, Guidelines for the Early Management of
Patients With Acute Ischemic Stroke: 2019 Update to the 2018 Guidelines for the Early
Management of Acute Ischemic Stroke A Guideline for Healthcare Professionals From the
American Heart Association/American Stroke Association, Stroke, 50 (12): e344-e418.

Proskurina, T, E Mykhailova and T Matkovska, 2018, Some Questions of Therapy of Vegetative
Disorders in Children and Adolescents with Depression, 26th European Congress of Psychiatry,
E-Poster, 48S:S359–S566.

Ratanji, KD, JP Derrick, RJ Dearman and I Kimber, 2014, Immunogenicity of Therapeutic
Proteins: Influence of Aggregation, J Immunotoxicol, 11(2):99-109.

Romanova, G, D Silachev, F Shakova, YN Kvashennikova, I Viktorov, S Shram and N
Myasoedov, 2006, Neuroprotective and Antiamnesic Effects of Semax During Experimental
Ischemic Infarction of the Cerebral Cortex, Bull Exp Biol Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 142:663-
666.



                                                                                                49
Safarova, E, S Shram, I Grivennikov and N Myasoedov, 2002, Trophic Effects of Nootropic
Peptide Preparations Cerebrolysin and Semax on Cultured Rat Pheochromocytoma, Bull Exp
Biol Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 133:401-403.

Severyanova, L, A Kryukov, D Plotnikov and M Dolgintsev, 2020, Peptide ACTH4-7-Pgp:
Effects on Various Types of Pain and Pain-Induced Behavior in Rats after Systemic and Central
Administration, Bull Exp Biol Med (USSR) (Engl Transl), 170(2):185-190.

Shevchenko, KV, I Nagaev, L Alfeeva, LA Andreeva, AA Kamenskiĭ, NG Levitskaia, VP
Shevchenko, IA Grivennikov and NF Miasoedov, 2006a, [Kinetics of Semax Penetration into the
Brain and Blood of Rats after Its Intranasal Administration], Bioorg Khim, 32(1):64-70.

Shevchenko, K, IY Nagaev, LY Alfeeva, L Andreeva, A Kamenskii, N Levitskaya, V
Shevchenko, I Grivennikova and N Myasoedov, 2006b, Kinetics of Semax Penetration into the
Brain and Blood of Rats after Its Intranasal Administration, Russ J Bioorg Chem, 32:57-62.

Shevchenko, K, IY Nagaev, L Andreeva, V Shevchenko and N Myasoedov, 2013, Stability of
Semax Acetyl to Proteolysis in Various Biological Media, Dokl Biol Sci, 449(1):110.

Silachev, D, S Shram, F Shakova, G Romanova and N Myasoedov, 2009, Formation of Spatial
Memory in Rats with Ischemic Lesions to the Prefrontal Cortex; Effects of a Synthetic Analog of
ACTH (4-7), Neurosci Behav Physiol, 39(8):749-756.

Sims, SK, B Wilken-Resman, CJ Smith, A Mitchell, L McGonegal and C Sims-Robinson, 2022,
Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor and Nerve Growth Factor Therapeutics for Brain Injury: The
Current Translational Challenges in Preclinical and Clinical Research, Neural Plast,
2022:3889300.

Slominsky, P, M Shadrina, T Kolomin, A Stavrovskaya, E Filatova, L Andreeva, S Illarioshkin
and N Myasoedov, 2017, Peptides Semax and Selank Affect the Behavior of Rats with 6-OHDA
Induced PD-Like Parkinsonism, Dokl Biol Sci, 474:106-109.

Solov’ev, V, M Gengin, A Stolyarov, O Solov’eva, M Begutov and O Lyubchenko, 2016, The
Activities of Basic Carboxypeptidases in the Nervous System of Rats During Exercise Stress and
in Response to Semax and Selank, Neurochem J, 10:59-63.

Spetter, MS and M Hallschmid, 2015, Intranasal Neuropeptide Administration to Target the
Human Brain in Health and Disease, Mol Pharm, 12(8):2767-2780.

Stavchansky, VV, VV Yuzhakov, AY Botsina, VI Skvortsova, LN Bondurko, MG Tsyganova,
SA Limborska, NF Myasoedov and LV Dergunova, 2011, The Effect of Semax and Its C-End
Peptide PGP on the Morphology and Proliferative Activity of Rat Brain Cells During
Experimental Ischemia: A Pilot Study, J Mol Neurosci, 45:177-185.

Tarasov VV, NV Kudryashov, VN Chubarev, TS Kalinina, GE Barreto, GM Ashraf, G Aliev,
2018, Pharmacological Aspects of Neuro-Immune Interactions, Curr Pharmac Des, 24(1):15-21.




                                                                                             50
Tsai SJ, 2007, Semax, An Analogue of Adrenocorticotropin (4-10), is a Potential Agent for the
Treatment of Attention-deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and Rett Syndrome, Med Hyp, 68(5):
1144-1146.

Vlasova, I, D Buravtcov and A Saletsky, 2009, Luminescence Analysis of Blood Components in
Studies of the Neuroprotective Properties of the Drug “Semax” in Cerebral Ischemia, J Appl
Spec, 76:121-126.

Volkow, ND, G-J Wang, F Telang, JS Fowler, J Logan, A-R Childress, M Jayne, Y Ma and C
Wong, 2006, Cocaine Cues and Dopamine in Dorsal Striatum: Mechanism of Craving in
Cocaine Addiction, J Neurosci, 26(24):6583-6588.

Volodina, M, E Sebentsova, NY Glazova, N Levitskaya, L Andreeva, D Manchenko, A
Kamensky and N Myasoedov, 2012, Semax Attenuates the Infl Uence of Neonatal Maternal
Deprivation on the Behavior of Adolescent White Rats, Bull Exp Biol Med (USSR) (Engl
Transl), 152(5):560-563.

Zapadka, KL, Becher FJ, Gomes Dos Santos AL and Jackson SE, 2017, Factors Affecting the
Physical Stability (Aggregation) of Peptide Therapeutics, Interface Focus, 7(6).




                                                                                                51
V. APPENDICES

APPENDIX 1: TREATMENTS FOR STROKE

Table A. FDA-Approved Drug Products for Stroke.
 Treatment
              Class                                     Name of Product               ROA
 Type
 Acute        Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA)        Alteplase                     IV
 Prevention   Aldosterone antagonist                    Spironolactone                Oral
 Prevention   Aldosterone antagonist                    Carospir                      Oral
 Prevention   Aldosterone antagonist                    Eplerenone                    Oral
 Prevention   Alpha-adrenergic blocker                  Doxazosin mesylate            Oral
 Prevention   Alpha-adrenergic blocker                  Doxazosin                     Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Azilsartan kamedoxomil        Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Candesartan                   Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Cadesartan Cilexetil          Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Irbesartan                    Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Losartan                      Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Losartan potassium            Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Olmesartan medoxomil          Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Prexxartan                    Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Telmisartan                   Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin 2 receptor blocker            Valsartan                     Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor   Benazepril hydrochloride      Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor   Enalapril                     Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor   Enalapril maleate             Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor   Lisinopril                    Oral
 Prevention   Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor   Ramipril                      Oral
 Prevention   Beta-adrenergic blocker                   Metoprolol                    Oral
 Prevention   Beta-adrenergic blocker                   Metoprolol succinate          Oral
 Prevention   Beta-adrenergic blocker                   Metoprolol tartrate           Oral
 Prevention   Beta-adrenergic blocker                   Nebibolol                     Oral
 Prevention   Beta-adrenergic blocker                   Nebivolol                     Oral
 Prevention   Beta-adrenergic blocker                   Nebivolol hydrochloride       Oral
 Prevention   Beta-adrenergic blocker                   Propranolol hydrochloride     Oral
 Prevention   Biguanide; sodium-glucose cotransporter   Canagliflozin and metformin   Oral
              2 inhibitor                               hydrochloride
 Prevention   Calcium channel blocker                   Diltiazem hydrochloride       Oral
 Prevention   Calcium channel blocker                   Verapamil hydrochloride       Oral
 Prevention   Calcium channel blocker                   Amlodipine                    Oral
 Prevention   Dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker   Amlodipine besylate           Oral
 Prevention   Direct thrombin inhibitor                 Dabigatran etexilate          Oral
 Prevention   Direct thrombin inhibitor                 Dabigatran etexilate          Oral
                                                        mesylate
 Prevention   Factor Xa inhibitor                       Apixaban                      Oral
 Prevention   Factor Xa inhibitor                       Edoxaban tosylate             Oral
 Prevention   Factor Xa inhibitor                       Rivaroxaban                   Oral
 Prevention   GLP-1 receptor agonist                    Dulaglutide                   SC
 Prevention   GLP-1 receptor agonist                    Liraglutide                   SC
 Prevention   GLP-1 receptor agonist                    Semaglutide                   SC


                                                                                             52
Treatment
             Class                                      Name of Product            ROA
Type
Prevention   HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor                Atorvaliq                  Oral
Prevention   HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor                Atorvastatin calcium       Oral
Prevention   HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor                Pravastatin sodium         Oral
Prevention   HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor                Rosuvastatin               Oral
Prevention   HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor                Rosuvastatin calcium       Oral
Prevention   HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor                Simvastatin                Oral
Prevention   Loop diuretic                              Torsemide                  Oral
Prevention   NSAID; platelet aggregation inhibitor      Acetylsalicylic acid       Oral
Prevention   NSAID; platelet aggregation inhibitor      Aspirin and dipyridamole   Oral
Prevention   P2Y12 platelet inhibitor                   Clopidogrel                Oral
Prevention   P2Y12 platelet inhibitor                   Clopidogrel Bisulfate      Oral
Prevention   P2Y12 platelet inhibitor                   Prasugrel                  Oral
Prevention   P2Y12 platelet inhibitor                   Prasugrel hydrochloride    Oral
Prevention   P2Y12 platelet inhibitor                   Ticagrelor                 Oral
Prevention   PCSK9 inhibitor                            Alirocumab                 SC
Prevention   PCSK9 inhibitor                            Evolocumab                 SC
Prevention   Protease-activated receptor antagonist     Vorapaxar                  Oral
Prevention   Renin inhibitor                            Aliskirin                  Oral
Prevention   Renin inhibitor                            Aliskirin hemifumarate     Oral
Prevention   Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor   Canagliflozin              Oral
Prevention   Vitamin K antagonist                       Warfarin                   Oral
Prevention   Vitamin K antagonist                       Warfarin sodium            Oral




                                                                                          53
APPENDIX 2: TREATMENTS FOR MIGRAINE

Table B. FDA-Approved Prescription Drug Products for Migraine.
 Treatment
                Class                                  Name of Product           ROA
 Type
 Acute          Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug    Celecoxib                 Oral
 Acute          Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug    Diclofenac potassium      Oral
 Acute          Opioid agonist                         Fentanyl                  Buccal, sublingual
 Acute          Opioid agonist                         Fentanyl Citrate          Oral, buccal,
                                                                                 sublingual,
                                                                                 transmucosal, nasal
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Almotriptan               Oral
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Almotriptan malate        Oral
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Almotriptan malate        Oral
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Eletriptan hydrobromide   Oral
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Frovatriptan succinate    Oral
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Naratriptan               Oral
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Rizatriptan               Oral
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Rizatriptan benzoate      Oral
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Sumatriptan               Oral, SC, nasal
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Sumatriptan succinate     Oral, SC
                agonists
 Acute          Serotonin 1b and 1d receptor           Zolmitriptan              Oral, nasal
                agonists
 Acute          Ergotamine derivative                  Dihydroergotamine         Nasal
                                                       mesylate
 Acute          Calcitonin gene-related peptide        Atogepant                 Oral
                receptor antagonist
 Acute          Calcitonin gene-related peptide        Rimegepant sulfate        Oral
                receptor antagonist
 Acute          Calcitonin gene-related peptide        Ubrogepant                Oral
                receptor antagonist
 Acute          Calcitonin gene-related peptide        Zavegepant                Nasal
                receptor antagonist
 Acute          Serotonin (5-HT) 1F receptor agonist   Lasmiditan                Oral
 Preventative   Anti-epileptic                         Divalproex sodium         Oral
 Preventative   Anti-epileptic                         Topiramate                Oral
 Preventative   Anti-epileptic                         Valproate sodium          IV
 Preventative   Anti-epileptic                         Valproic acid             Oral
 Preventative   Beta blocker                           Propranolol               Oral
                                                       hydrochloride



                                                                                                   54
 Treatment
                Class                                 Name of Product           ROA
 Type
 Preventative   Calcitonin gene-related peptide       Eptinezumab-JJMR          IV
 Preventative   antagonist                            Erenumab-AOOE             SC
 Preventative   Calcitonin gene-related peptide       Fremanezumab-VFRM         SC
                antagonist
 Preventative   Calcitonin gene-related peptide       Galcanezumab-GNLM         SC
                antagonist
 Preventative   Acetylcholine release inhibitor;      Onabotulinumtoxina        Intradermal, IM
                neuromuscular blocker

Table C. Non-Prescription Drugs for Migraine.
 Product Type              Name of Product                                                ROA
 Single API                Ibuprofen (e.g., Advil Migraine, Motrin IB migraine)           Oral
 Combination of APIs       Acetaminophen + Aspirin + Caffeine (e.g., Excedrin migraine)   Oral




                                                                                                  55
  Semax – Related Bulk Drug
 Substances (Semax (free base)
