FDA Briefing Document

       Pharmacy Compounding Advisory Committee (PCAC)
                          Meeting

                                    July 23 -24, 2026




The attached package contains background information prepared by the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA or Agency) for the panel members of the Pharmacy Compounding Advisory
Committee (advisory committee). We are bringing certain compounding issues to this advisory
committee to obtain the advisory committee’s advice. The background package may not include all
issues relevant to the final committee recommendation and instead is intended to focus on issues
identified by the Agency for discussion by the advisory committee. The FDA will not issue a final
determination on the issues at hand until input from the advisory committee process has been
considered and all reviews have been finalized. The final determination may be affected by issues
not discussed at the advisory committee meeting.




                                                                                                    1
MOTS-c-Related Bulk
  Drug Substances
(MOTS-c (free base)
and MOTS-c acetate)




                      2
FDA Evaluation of MOTS-c –
Related Bulk Drug Substances
  (MOTS-c (free base) and
      MOTS-c acetate)




                               4
DATE:           5/11/2026

FROM:           Jing Li, Ph.D.
                Chemistry reviewer, Office of Product Quality Assessment II (OPQAII), Office of
                Pharmaceutical Quality (OPQ)

                Nga-Lai Poon, Pharm.D.
                Regulatory Specialist, Office of Compounding Quality and Compliance (OCQC),
                CDER, Office of Compliance (OC)

                Kemi Asante, Pharm.D., M.P.H., RAC
                Lead Consumer Safety Officer, OCQC, OC

                Edna Albuquerque, Ph.D.
                Senior Pharmacology/Toxicology Reviewer, Division of
                Pharmacology/Toxicology for Rare Diseases, Pediatrics, Urologic, and
                Reproductive Medicine (DPT-RPURM/SM), Office of New Drugs (OND)

                Andrea Benedict, Ph.D.
                Nonclinical Team Leader, DPT-RPURM/SM, OND

                Marianne San Antonio, D.O.
                Physician, PCRT, OSM, OND

                Suhail Kasim, M.D., MPH
                Lead Physician, PCRT, OSM, OND

THROUGH: Russell Wesdyk, M.S., M.B.A.
         Associate Director Regulatory Affairs, OPQA2, OPQ

                Alex Gorovets, M.D.
                Deputy Director, OSM, OND

                Matt Lash, J.D.
                Acting Director, OCQC, OC
                Deputy Director, OC

TO:             Pharmacy Compounding Advisory Committee

SUBJECT :   Evaluation of MOTS-c-related Bulk Drug Substances (MOTS-c (free base) and
            MOTS-c acetate) for Inclusion on the 503A Bulk Drug Substances List
______________________________________________________________________________
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov



                                                                                              5
List of Abbreviations

 Abbreviation           Term
 AMPK                   adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase
 API                    active pharmaceutical ingredient
 AT1R                   angiotensin II type 1 receptor
 BDS                    bulk drug substance
 BET                    bacterial endotoxins test
 BMM                    bone marrow macrophage
 CoA                    Certificate of Analysis
 ETβR                   endothelin β receptor
 FAERS                  FDA Adverse Event Reporting System
 FD&C Act               Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
 FDA                    Food and Drug Administration
 Global DRO             Global Drug Reference Online
 INN                    International Non-proprietary Name
 IP                     intraperitoneal
 IUPAC                  International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry
 IV                     intravenous
 MOTS-c                 Mitochondrial Open Reading Frame of the 12S rRNA-c
 NF                     National Formulary
 OF                     outsourcing facility
 OVX                    ovariectomy
 ROA                    route of administration
 SC                     subcutaneous
 UHMWPE                 ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene
 USAN                   United States Adopted Name
 USP                    United States Pharmacopeia




                                                                             6
I.     INTRODUCTION
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA, the Agency, or we) received a nomination for
Mitochondrial Open Reading Frame of the 12S rRNA-c (MOTS-c)-related bulk drug substances
(BDSs) for inclusion on the list of BDSs that can be used in compounding under section 503A of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act). 1 The nominator of MOTS-c-related
BDSs provided inconsistent information in the nomination package regarding the specific BDS
proposed. Specifically, it is unclear in the nomination package whether the nomination was for
MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate. MOTS-c (free base) and MOTS-c acetate are different
pharmaceutical ingredients and hence are considered different BDSs. Please see additional
information in Section II.A. The nomination was withdrawn 2, and FDA is evaluating the
substances at its discretion.

MOTS-c is reported to be a peptide consisting of 16 amino acids. Although it is unclear whether
the nominator intended to nominate MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate, FDA has decided to
evaluate both on its own initiative.

MOTS-c-related BDSs were nominated for the following uses: insulin resistance, obesity,
osteoporosis, vascular calcification, muscle/fat metabolism, longevity.3,4 The MOTS-c-related
drug products proposed in the nomination are 5 mg and 10 mg for subcutaneous (SC) injection.

There is no applicable United States Pharmacopeia (USP) or National Formulary (NF) drug
substance monograph for MOTS-c (free base) or its acetate form, and neither is a component of
an FDA-approved drug.

We have evaluated publicly available data on the physicochemical characteristics, historical use,
safety, and effectiveness in compounding of these substances. For the reasons discussed below,
we believe the evaluation criteria weigh against placing MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate




1
 The nomination of “Mitochondrial Open Reading Frame of the 12S rRNA-c (MOTS-c)” was submitted
by Wells Pharmacy Network (Wells) (Document ID: FDA-2015-N-3534-0293) and can be accessed at:
https://www.regulations.gov/document/FDA-2015-N-3534-0293. The nomination was withdrawn, but
because FDA is evaluating MOTS-c (free base) and MOTS-c acetate on its own initiative, FDA
considered information submitted in this nomination as part of this evaluation.
2
    Document ID: FDA-2015-N-3534-0484.
3
  We have explained that it is necessary to evaluate a nominated bulk drug substance in the context of the
uses proposed for compounded drug products that include the substance, though we acknowledge that
inclusion of a substance on the 503A Bulks List may not be limited to a specific use. See 84 FR 4696,
4701.
4
  FDA did not evaluate the proposed uses: insulin resistance, obesity, osteoporosis, vascular calcification,
muscle/fat metabolism, longevity because the nomination did not include sufficient information for the
Agency to evaluate whether the substance is appropriate for these uses in compounded drug products. In
addition, FDA did not identify clinical studies evaluating these uses of MOTS-c. See 80 FR 65765 for the
information necessary to fully evaluate a substance for inclusion on the 503A Bulks List.



                                                                                                           7
on the list of bulk drug substances that can be used to compound drug products in accordance
with section 503A of the FD&C Act (503A Bulks List).

II. EVALUATION CRITERIA

     A. Is the Substance Well-Characterized, Physically and Chemically? 5
MOTS-c is a common name and not a United States Adopted Name (USAN). 6 FDA has
encountered multiple salts, and derivatives, including different active moieties, sold
commercially under the same common name for similarly situated products. Inconsistent naming
conventions that do not follow established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN 7,
IUPAC 8, USAN) represent a safety risk for patients as they may be dosed with a different BDS
than the physician ordered. From a chemical analysis standpoint, inconsistent naming
conventions for MOTS-c related BDSs also introduce risks because of the inability to determine
which BDS a particular reference standard is referencing.

A BDS or active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) 9 used in a drug product may be a free base
(i.e., the native molecule) or a salt or an ester of the free base, all of which share the same active




5
  Among the conditions that must be met for a drug compounded using bulk drug substances to be eligible
for the exemptions in section 503A of the FD&C Act is that the bulk drug substances are manufactured
by an establishment that is registered under section 510 of the FD&C Act and that each bulk drug
substance is accompanied by a valid certificate of analysis. Sections 503A(b)(1)(A)(ii) and (iii). A bulk
drug substance is deemed to be adulterated if the methods used in, or the facilities or controls used for, its
manufacture, processing, packing, or holding do not conform to or are not operated or administered in
conformity with current good manufacturing practice. Section 501(a)(2)(B).
6
  United States Adopted Name (USAN) is a unique, nonproprietary name for a drug sold in the United
States. The USAN Council, which is sponsored by several organizations, assigns USANs. This program
and naming convention are intended to help physicians, pharmaceutical manufacturers of active
ingredients and finished dosage forms, and pharmacists ensure that the patient is provided with the drug
the physician intended.
7
  International Nonproprietary Names (INN) facilitate the identification of pharmaceutical substances or
active pharmaceutical ingredients. Each INN is a unique name that is globally recognized and is public
property. A nonproprietary name is also known as a generic name.
8
  The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) is an international federation of
National Adhering Organizations working for the advancement of the chemical sciences, especially by
developing nomenclature and terminology.
9
  The terms BDS and active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) are used interchangeably in the
compounding context. See 21 CFR 207.3 (“Bulk drug substance, as referenced in sections 503A(b)(1)(A)
and 503B(a)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, previously defined in § 207.3(a)(4), means
the same as "active pharmaceutical ingredient" as defined in § 207.1.”). An API is defined in FDA
regulations at 21 CFR 207.1, which states “Active pharmaceutical ingredient means any substance that is
intended for incorporation into a finished drug product and is intended to furnish pharmacological activity
or other direct effect in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the
structure or any function of the body. Active pharmaceutical ingredient does not include intermediates
used in the synthesis of the substance.”



                                                                                                              8
moiety. 10 Different active moieties are not interchangeable because they can have different safety
and efficacy profiles. Similarly, a free base or the various salts or ester of an active moiety are
distinct chemical entities, each with a different chemical structure and unique physical/chemical,
or pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic characteristics. As a result, each may offer distinct
properties (e.g., different solubilities, permeability, melting points, stability, or flow
characteristics) and may also have different safety and/or efficacy profiles. All distinct active
moieties, as well as free bases, salts, or esters of any given active moiety, are distinct BDSs for
these reasons.

MOTS-c is a 16-amino-acid peptide encoded by a short open reading frame (sORF) within the
mitochondrial 12S rRNA (mitochondrial open-reading-frame of the twelve S rRNA type-c)
(Zheng et al. 2023). As discussed above, FDA received a nomination for MOTS-c related BDSs
that were not clear whether the intended nomination was for MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c
acetate salt. These substances are distinct BDSs/APIs. Therefore, for the purpose of this
assessment, we will consider both MOTS-c (free base) and MOTS-c acetate and will evaluate the
physical and chemical characterization of each.

Table 1 below summarizes available identifying information obtained from the public domain for
each BDS.

Table 1. Summary of Basic Information on MOTS-c (Free Base) and MOTS-c Acetate.
                        MOTS-c (Free Base)                   MOTS-c Acetate
  UNII Code                A5CV6JFB78                         Not available
   CAS No.*                1627580-64-6             CAS number of the free base is used
    MF/MW
                      C101H152N28O22S2/2174.6       C101H152N28O22S2·xCH3COOH/NA
     (g/mol)
                 H-Met-Arg-Trp-Gln-Glu-Met-Gly- H-Met-Arg-Trp-Gln-Glu-Met-Gly-Tyr-
     Peptide
                 Tyr-Ile-Phe-Tyr-Pro-Arg-Lys-Leu- Ile-Phe-Tyr-Pro-Arg-Lys-Leu-Arg-OH
    sequence
                              Arg-OH
                                                              x.CH3COOH
   Supplier 11                  Yes                               Yes
 Active moiety           MOTS-c (free base)                MOTS-c (free base)
* CAS is an abbreviation of Chemical Abstracts Service. MF = molecular formula. MW = molecular weight.

One nomination was submitted, which, as discussed above, was later withdrawn. The nominator
provided inconsistent information about the different MOTS-c BDSs in their nomination
package. Due to inconsistencies in the nomination, it is unclear which MOTS-c-related BDS the


10
   “Active moiety is the molecule or ion, excluding those appended portions of the molecule that cause the
drug to be an ester, salt (including a salt with hydrogen or coordination bonds), or other noncovalent
derivative (such as a complex, chelate, or clathrate) of the molecule, responsible for the physiological or
pharmacological action of the drug substance.”21 CFR 314.3.
11
   The existence of a supplier of BDS may be relevant to FDA’s characterization analysis because it
indicates that consistent production of the BDS according to a standard may be possible. BDSs with
suppliers are also frequently accompanied by COAs associated with their production, which can help
FDA to identify and characterize BDSs.



                                                                                                          9
nominator intended to nominate. For example, the Certificate of Analysis (CoA) submitted with
the nomination package refers to one BDS by name in the title and a different BDS by the CAS
number. All chemistry related information about the BDSs provided by nominator is summarized
in Table 2.

Table 2. Summary of Information Submitted in the Withdrawn Nomination.
 Nominator           1
 Nominated BDS       MOTS-c
 BDS per UNII code A5CV6JFB78 (matches MOTS-c free base)
 CoA                 CoA provided for MOTS-c Acetate
 CAS No.             1627580-64-6 (matches MOTS-c free base)
                     C101H152N28O22S2 (provided in the nomination package that matches
 MF
                     MOTS-c free base)
 MW (g/mol)          Not provided
                     (4S)-4-[[(2S)-5-amino-2-[[(2S)-2-[[(2S)-2-[[(2S)-2-amino-4-
                     methylsulfanylbutanoyl]amino]-5-carbamimidamidopentanoyl]amino]-3-
                     (1H-indol-3-yl)propanoyl]amino]-5-oxopentanoyl]amino]-5-[[(2S)-1-[[2-
                     [[(2S)-1-[[(2S,3S)-1-[[(2S)-1-[[(2S)-1-[(2S)-2-[[(2S)-1-[[(2S)-6-amino-1-
                     [[(2S)-1-[[(1S)-4-carbamimidamido-1-carboxybutyl]amino]-4-methyl-1-
 Chemical name       oxopentan-2-yl]amino]-1-oxohexan-2-yl]amino]-5-carbamimidamido-1-
                     oxopentan-2-yl]carbamoyl]pyrrolidin-1-yl]-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-
                     oxopropan-2-yl]amino]-1-oxo-3-phenylpropan-2-yl]amino]-3-methyl-1-
                     oxopentan-2-yl]amino]-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-oxopropan-2-yl]amino]-
                     2-oxoethyl]amino]-4-methylsulfanyl-1-oxobutan-2-yl]amino]-5-
                     oxopentanoic acid (matches MOTS-c free base)
Italics in the table above represents the information identified by the FDA.

FDA is choosing to concurrently evaluate both BDSs (MOTS-c free base and MOTS-c acetate)
in this section under two different sub-sections (II.A.1 and II.A.2) and will provide a separate
conclusion for each of the two BDSs.

The nominator has proposed to compound this BDS into the following dosage form:

•   Injection

    − For an injection product, in general, critical quality attributes (CQAs) including sterility,
      bacterial endotoxins test (BET), and foreign particulates are considered critical safety
      factors. For this reason, microbial bioburden load (i.e., microbial enumeration test) and
      BET are critical for the BDSs to be used in compounding injections. Evaluation of the
      solubility of the BDS is also considered critical to ensure that no BDS precipitates are
      formed in the compounded drug product.

There is no USP drug substance monograph for MOTS-c (free base) or its acetate salt. We
reviewed physical and chemical characterization-related information provided by the nominator
and performed a literature search for additional information on MOTS-c (free base) and its
acetate salt. Databases searched for information on MOTS-c (free base) and its acetate salt in




                                                                                                      10
preparation of this section included SciFinder, Analytical Profiles of Drug Substances, PubMed,
the European Pharmacopoeia, and the USP-NF.

       1. MOTS-c (Free Base)
MOTS-c is reported to be a synthetic version of a mitochondria-derived 16-amino acid peptide
encoded by the open reading frame of the 12S rRNA type C (Lee et al. 2016). The molecular
formula of MOTS-c (free base) is C101H152N28O22S2 with the molecular weight of 2174.6 g/mol.
The chemical structure and peptide sequence of MOTS-c are shown in Figure 1. There is no CoA
available for MOTS-c (free base) in the nomination.

Figure 1. The Chemical Structure 12 and Peptide Sequence 13 of MOTS-c (Free Base).
Chemical Structure of MOTS-c:




Sequence:

H-Met-Arg-Trp-Gln-Glu-Met-Gly-Tyr-Ile-Phe-Tyr-Pro-Arg-Lys-Leu-Arg-OH

               a. Stability of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient and Likely Dosage Forms
It is reported that lyophilized MOTS-c (free base) is stable when stored at -20°C desiccated and
protected from light in a tightly closed container. 14 Upon reconstitution, the solution is
recommended to keep/store at +4°C between 2-7 days and for future use below -18°C. 15

FDA notes that peptides can be extremely sensitive to product formulation, process, and
environmental conditions (e.g., pH, heat (temperature), concentration, in-process related
impurities, excipients etc.), which may lead to the aggregation and degradation of peptides. This
could result in loss of their biological activity (Zapadka et al. 2017). Multiple analytical methods


12
   https://www.peptides.org/mots-c/. Accessed March 21, 2025.
13
   https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/146675088#section=Biologic-Description. Accessed
March 21, 2025.
14
   https://www.anaspec.com/assets/b2f60ab5-a1f5-4201-9a1b-435a9bcf7abc/sds-en-as-65587-mots-c.pdf.
Accessed March 21, 2025.
15
   https://www.prospecbio.com/mots-c. Accessed March 21, 2025.



                                                                                                   11
may be needed to detect various aggregates, including size exclusion chromatography or field
flow fractionation. Hence, peptides may require more and/or specific analytical in-process and
finished product testing for impurities than what is required for small molecules. Uncontrolled
manufacturing processes as well as impurities may increase the risk of product aggregation,
especially for MOTS-c (free base) with 16-amino acids. Significant amounts of aggregates can
form in formulated products, especially during storage or when exposed to stress conditions.
Therefore, product formulation is critical to the quality and stability of peptide drug products, as
it is necessary to maintain the peptide molecules in their native state (in the formulation) to the
extent possible.

            b. Probable Routes of API Synthesis
MOTS-c (free base) can be synthesized using a standard Fmoc-based solid phase synthesis
methodology, as described by Jiang (Jiang et al. 2021). Then, the obtained crude peptide was
purified by preparative High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC). The purity of the
peptide was determined by analytical HPLC and Electrospray Ionization Time-of-Flight (ESI-
TOF) Mass Spectrometry (ESI-TOF MS). There are other possible synthesis paths as well, which
would result in different impurity profiles. It is difficult to know which synthesis pathways are
used by chemical suppliers of the nominated MOTS-c (free base).

            c. Likely Impurities 16
Generally speaking, peptide-related impurities and peptide synthesis process-related impurities
contribute to and are considered in understanding the impurity profile for all peptides, including
MOTS-c (free base). For most synthetic peptides, solid-phase peptide synthesis method has been
widely used by industry for peptide synthesis. The solid phase synthesis of peptides may lead to
potential peptide-related impurities due to incomplete coupling reactions, truncations, or side
reactions. These peptide-related impurities are typically similar in structure to the target peptide
and may be difficult to identify and quantify without sophisticated analytical methods.
Additional potential common impurities may be derived from impurities in the protected amino
acid starting materials (e.g., isomeric impurities and free amino acids) and other species that may
carry over into drug substances. In addition, residual solvents, coupling reagents, activators,
catalysts, and scavengers may exist as solid phase peptide synthesis process related impurities.
Drug substance and its proposed product-related impurities may also include peptide-related
aggregates.

There is no CoA for MOTS-c (free base) in the nomination package. We conducted literature
searches and found a CoA for MOTS-c (free base) that only contains purity testing result shown


16
  This evaluation contains a non-exhaustive list of potential impurities in the bulk drug substance and
does not address fully the potential safety concerns associated with those impurities. The compounder
should use the information about the impurities identified in the certificate of analysis accompanying the
bulk drug substance to evaluate any potential safety and quality issues associated with impurities in a drug
product compounded using that bulk drug substance taking into account the amount of the impurity, dose,
route of administration, and chronicity of dosing. Available nonclinical toxicity data for likely impurities
of concern (e.g., nitrosamines, potential mutagenic substances, and potential teratogenic substances) in
the nominated bulk drug substance are discussed in the Nonclinical Assessment at Section C.I. as part of
the safety assessment of the substance.



                                                                                                          12
below as an example (Figure 2). 17 However, there is no information on the impurity
limits/testing results as attribute control in the CoA to demonstrate quality control of impurity
profile of MOTS-c (free base).

Because there is lack of information regarding potential impurities that can be present in MOTS-
c (free base) and the lack of information on the potential of peptide aggregation, we cannot rule
out the potential for immunogenicity associated with these impurities and peptide-related
aggregates.

Figure 2. Example of CoA for MOTS-c (Free Base).




           d. Physicochemical Characteristics Pertinent to Product Performance, Such as
              Particle Size and Polymorphism
MOTS-c (free base) is white to off-white lyophilized powder. Based on the reports in most
publicly available literature MOTS-c (free base) is soluble in water 18,19and in phosphate-buffered
saline (Bhullar et al. 2021).

In the nomination package, under “What strength(s) will be compounded from the nominated
substance?”, it claims as “5 mg and 10 mg Lyophilized Vial”. However, there is no information
in the nomination about the volume of water or other solvent used to reconstitute the final


17
   https://www.limitlesslifenootropics.com/product/mots-c-10mg/. Accessed March 21, 2025.
18
   https://lifescienceproduction.co.uk/mots-c/. Accessed March 21, 2025.
19
   https://pharmalabglobal.com/product/mots-c-peptide/. Accessed March 21, 2025.



                                                                                                    13
solution for SC administration. MOTS-c is reported to be soluble in water, however there is no
solubility data available from public domain or in the nomination for FDA assessment to ensure
that the nominated BDS will be completely soluble in the final solution without precipitates
formed in the compounded drug product. Because the nominator did not provide any information
on how to compound the proposed injectable product with known concentration, we cannot
evaluate how the water solubility of MOTS-c (free base) will impact the performance of the
proposed injectable final product.

           e. Any Other Information About the Substance That May Be Relevant, Such as
              Whether the API Is Poorly Characterized or Difficult to Characterize
Because there is lack of CoA for MOTS-c (free base), we do not know if microbial bioburden
and/or BETs are in place to control the BDS proposed for compounding injectable dosage form.
Endotoxin test is considered a critical quality control attribute for injection product. No such
relevant information was identified from public domain either.

Conclusions: MOTS-c (free base) is reported to be a peptide consisting of 16 amino acids. As
reported in the literature, lyophilized MOTS-c (free base) is expected to be stable when stored
below -20°C desiccated and protected from light in a tightly closed container.

Compounded drugs containing MOTS-c (free base) may pose significant risk for
immunogenicity when administered by injection routes due to potential of aggregate formation
as well as potential peptide-related impurities. The nominator did not provide information
regarding the immunogenicity risk of MOTS-c (free base) and FDA identified only limited
information in the literature. Because of the lack of information regarding potential impurities
that can be present in MOTS-c (free base) and the lack of information on the potential of peptide
aggregation, FDA cannot rule out the potential for immunogenicity associated with these
impurities and peptide related impurity aggregates.

MOTS-c (free base) is considered to be not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., USAN, INN, IUPAC), and (2) BDS specific
quality control attributes, including impurities, aggregates, bacterial endotoxins, and microbial
bioburden testing, were not found in the publicly available scientific literature and lack of CoA
in the nomination package which are offered as evidence to establishing identity, purity, and
impurity profiles of the substance. We also note that the stability, pharmacological activity, and
immunogenic properties of peptides such as MOTS-c (free base) are highly sensitive to the
manufacturing process and quality attributes of the compounded/finished drug product. In
addition, due to lack of information on the water solubility data of MOTS-c (free base) as well as
the reconstituted concentration of proposed injectable final product, it is difficult to draw a
conclusion if the water solubility of MOTS-c (free base) will be a potential issue to impact
product performance for the proposed injectable dosage form.

       2. MOTS-c Acetate
The molecular formula of MOTS-c acetate is C101H152N28O22S2·CH3COOH with the molecular
weight of 2234.64 g/mol. The chemical structure is shown in Figure 3. The nominator provided
CoA for MOTS-c acetate with the quality control attribute testing results, including



                                                                                                  14
identification, amino acid composition, assay, water content and acetate content (Figure 4).
There is no testing result for the quality control attribute on impurities, aggregates, microbial
bioburden and/or bacterial endotoxin levels, and residual solvent(s).

Figure 3. The Chemical Structure of MOTS-c Acetate. 20




                                                                                          ·CH3COOH




20
     https://aapep.bocsci.com/product/mots-c-human-acetate-447759.html. Accessed April 23, 2026.



                                                                                                    15
Figure 4. Nominator-Provided Example of a CoA for MOTS-c Acetate.




              a. Stability of the API and Likely Dosage Forms
Based on the CoA provided by the nominator, long-term storage conditions for MOTS-c acetate
are “in a sealed container at 2°C to 8°C”. Additionally, MOTS-c acetate is reported to be stable
at -80°C for 2 years and at -20°C for 1 year. The aliquot solution of MOTS-c acetate is stable at
-80°C for 6 months and at -20°C for 1 month. 21

FDA notes that peptides can be extremely sensitive to product formulation, process, and
environmental conditions (e.g., pH, heat (temperature), concentration, in-process related
impurities, excipients etc.), which may lead to the aggregation and degradation of peptides. This
could result in loss of their biological activity (Zapadka et al. 2017). Multiple analytical methods
may be needed to detect various aggregates, including size exclusion chromatography or field
flow fractionation. Hence, peptides may require more and/or specific analytical in-process and
finished product testing for impurities than what is required for small molecules. Uncontrolled
manufacturing processes as well as impurities may increase the risk of product aggregation.
Significant amounts of aggregates can form in formulated products, especially during storage or
when exposed to stress conditions. Therefore, product formulation is critical to the quality and
stability of peptide drug products, as it is necessary to maintain the peptide molecules in their
native state (in the formulation) to the extent possible.



21
     https://www.medchemexpress.com/mots-c-human-acetate.html. Accessed March 21, 2025.



                                                                                                  16
            b. Probable Routes of API Synthesis
MOTS-c (free base) can be synthesized using a standard Fmoc-based solid phase synthesis
methodology as mentioned in Section A.1.b. Then, the free base can be converted into MOTS-c
salt. As mentioned in A1.2, there are other possible synthesis paths as well, which would result
in different impurity profiles. It is difficult to know which synthesis pathways are used by
chemical suppliers of the nominated MOTS-c acetate.

            c. Likely Impurities 22
Generally speaking, peptide-related impurities and peptide synthesis process-related impurities
contribute to and are considered in understanding the impurity profile for all peptides, including
MOTS-c acetate. For most synthetic peptides, solid-phase peptide synthesis method has been
widely used by industry for peptide synthesis. The solid phase synthesis of peptides may lead to
potential peptide-related impurities due to incomplete coupling reactions, truncations, or side
reactions. These peptide-related impurities are typically similar in structure to the target peptide
and may be difficult to identify and quantify without sophisticated analytical methods.
Additional potential common impurities may be derived from impurities in the protected amino
acid starting materials (e.g., isomeric impurities and free amino acids) and other species that may
carry over into drug substances. In addition, residual solvents, coupling reagents, activators,
catalysts, and scavengers may exist as solid phase peptide synthesis process related impurities.
Drug substance and its proposed product-related impurities may also include peptide-related
aggregates, especially for peptide like MOTS-c acetate with 16-amino acid that may have an
inherent tendency to aggregate.

In the CoA the nominator provided there is purity test limit of ≥ 98.0% with the testing result of
99.2% for MOTS-c acetate. However, there is no impurity quality control attribute tests to
demonstrate the impurity profiles.

We conducted literature searches and found that most CoA for MOTS-c acetate only contains
purity testing result shown below as an example (Figure 5). 23 However, there is no information
on the impurity limits/testing results as attribute control in the CoA to demonstrate quality
control of impurity profile of MOTS-c acetate.




22
   This evaluation contains a non-exhaustive list of potential impurities in the bulk drug substance and
does not address fully the potential safety concerns associated with those impurities. The compounder
should use the information about the impurities identified in the certificate of analysis accompanying the
bulk drug substance to evaluate any potential safety and quality issues associated with impurities in a drug
product compounded using that bulk drug substance taking into account the amount of the impurity, dose,
route of administration, and chronicity of dosing. Available nonclinical toxicity data for likely impurities
of concern (e.g., nitrosamines, potential mutagenic substances, and potential teratogenic substances) in
the nominated bulk drug substance are discussed in the Nonclinical Assessment at Section C.I. as part of
the safety assessment of the substance.
23
   https://file.medchemexpress.com/batch_PDF/HY-P2048A/MOTS-c-human-acetate-COA-66073-
MedChemExpress.pdf. Accessed March 21, 2025.



                                                                                                         17
Because there is lack of information regarding potential impurities that can be present in MOTS-
c acetate and the lack of information on the potential of peptide aggregation, we cannot rule out
the potential for immunogenicity associated with these impurities and peptide related aggregates.
Figure 5. Example of a CoA for MOTS-c Acetate.




              d. Physicochemical Characteristics Pertinent to Product Performance, Such as
                 Particle Size and Polymorphism
MOTS-c acetate is a white to off-white solid powder. It is reported to dissolve in water at
6.25 mg/mL. 24 Because the nominator did not provide any information on how to compound the
proposed injectable product with known concentration, we cannot evaluate how the water
solubility of MOTS-c acetate will impact the performance of the proposed injectable final
product.

              e. Any Other Information About the Substance That May Be Relevant, Such as
                 Whether the API Is Poorly Characterized or Difficult to Characterize
In the CoA the nominator provided, there is no testing result for the quality control attribute on
impurities, aggregates, and microbial bioburden and/or bacterial endotoxin levels. Bacterial
endotoxin test is considered a critical quality control attribute for injection products. No such
relevant information was identified from public domain, either.




24
     https://www.medchemexpress.com/mots-c-human-acetate.html. Accessed March 21, 2025.



                                                                                                     18
Conclusions: MOTS-c acetate is an acetate salt of a peptide consisting of 16 amino acids. As
reported in the literature, MOTS-c acetate is expected to be stable under reported storage
conditions (below -20°C).

MOTS-c acetate is considered not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN,), and (2) certain critical
characterization data specific to MOTS-c acetate (including impurities, aggregates, microbial
bioburden and/or bacterial endotoxin) were not found in the publicly available scientific
literature, and the provided CoA, which was offered as evidence to establishing identity, purity,
and impurity profiles of the substance. The limited information related to critical characterization
data is particularly important for immunogenicity. As discussed in Section II.D.2.d., FDA is
concerned about the potential for immunogenicity of MOTS-c acetate when formulated in an
injectable dosage form for SC administration due to the potential for aggregation as well as
potential peptide-related impurities, as discussed in the impurities section. Injectable routes of
administration may present a particular risk for immunogenicity. The nomination did not include,
and FDA has not identified, information about MOTS-c acetate to suggest that this substance
does not present these risks. Therefore, we cannot rule out potential immunogenicity issues
associated with peptide and peptide-related impurities aggregates. In addition, we cannot
evaluate how the water solubility of MOTS-c acetate will impact the performance of the
proposed injectable final product due to lack of information on how to compound the proposed
injectable product with known concentration. We also note that the stability, pharmacological
activity, and immunogenic properties of peptides such as MOTS-c acetate are highly sensitive to
the manufacturing process and quality attributes of the compounded/finished drug product.

       B.    Has the Substance Been Used Historically in Compounding?
MOTS-c related BDSs were nominated for the injectable route of administration and use in
insulin resistance, obesity, osteoporosis, vascular calcification, muscle/fat metabolism, longevity;
however, FDA searched generally for information on the historical use of MOTS-c (free base)
and MOTS-c acetate in compounding. Information about use may not specify specific attributes
of the product, such as route of administration. Databases searched for information on both
substances for this evaluation included PubMed, EMBASE, Google/Google Scholar,
Micromedex, Clinical Pharmacology, NatMedPro Database, USP/NF, European Pharmacopoeia,
Japanese Pharmacopoeia, European Medicines Agency, GlobalEdge.com, and the Outsourcing
Facility (OF) Product Reporting Database. 25 It is often unclear whether the MOTS-c discussed in
information from these sources is the salt form or the free base and whether it was compounded
or not. Therefore, FDA will consider the information discussed in this section in its evaluation
for both the free base and salt form as appropriate.

            1. Length of Time the Substance Has Been Used in Compounding
The nominator did not provide historical use data.




25
     Available at https://dps.fda.gov/outsourcingfacility.



                                                                                                 19
MOTS-c, a peptide containing 16 amino acids encoded by the genic region 12S rRNA
mitochondrial or MT-RNR1, was first discovered by Lee et al. in 2015 (Monterio et al. 2019).

The earliest and extent of MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate use in compounding is
unknown. No published studies were found in which non-compounded or compounded drug
products containing MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate were used in humans. According to
outsourcing facility (OF) reports submitted to FDA, OFs have not reported preparing single or
multiple-API compounded drug products containing MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate
from January 2017 to December 2025. 26

       2. The Medical Condition(s) It Has Been Used to Treat
Results from a Google search indicate that MOTS-c is marketed on websites alone and in
combination with other substances.

Several websites assert that MOTS-c is used to regulate mitochondrial energy; promote the
metabolism of fatty acid in the liver; promote metabolic homeostasis; improve glucose
regulation; aid in the resistance of metabolic stress; protect against insulin resistance; promote
weight loss; improve physical performance (Appendix 1); promote muscle health; support DNA
repair and autophagy; and slow cellular aging. 27 It is unclear whether compounded products are
being used in all of these instances.

       3. How Widespread Its Use Has Been
An internet search for compounded drug products containing MOTS-c revealed that a holistic
clinic states that they work with compounding pharmacies to obtain compounded peptide drug
products containing MOTS-c. 28 A wellness clinic promotes a “Cocktail IV Therapy” that
contains MOTS-c but does not provide additional drug product details of the other substances in
the compounded drug product (Appendix 2).

MOTS-c appears as a prohibited substance in the Global Drug Reference Online (Global DRO)
Database, which obtains information from the 2024 WADA (World-Anti-Doping Agency)
Prohibited List of Hormone and Metabolic Modulators. 29




26
   The Drug Quality and Security Act, signed into law on November 27, 2013, created a new section 503B
in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Under section 503B, a compounder can become an
outsourcing facility. Outsourcing facilities are required to provide FDA with a list of drugs they
compounded during the previous six- month period upon initial registration and in June and December
each year. This retrospective information does not identify drugs that outsourcing facilities intend to
produce in the future. https://dps.fda.gov/outsourcingfacility
27
   Renew Youth – MOTS-c: A potential anti-aging peptide. Available at
https://www.renewyouth.com/mots-c-a-potential-anti-aging-peptide/. Accessed 3/20/24.
28
   What are Peptides? Available at https://www.hawaiiwholepersonhealing.com/peptides/. Accessed
3/20/24.
29
   Global Drug Reference Online (Global DRO). Available at https://globaldro.com/Home. Accessed
3/20/24.



                                                                                                    20
       4. Recognition of the Substance in Other Countries or Foreign Pharmacopeias
A search of the European Pharmacopoeia (11.5 edition, 2024), and the Japanese Pharmacopoeia
(18th Edition) did not show any monograph listings for MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate.
The European Medicines Agency did not list any products containing MOTS-c or MOTS-c
acetate that are authorized for use.

Conclusions: It is often unclear whether the MOTS-c discussed in the sources considered for
this section is the salt formulation or the free base. Available literature indicates that MOTS-c
was discovered by researchers in 2015. Published literature did not reveal studies in which
compounded drug products containing MOTS-c or MOTS-c acetate were used in humans. OFs
did not report compounding drug products containing MOTS-c or MOTS-c acetate. Based on
internet searches, it appears that compounded MOTS-c is marketed alone and in combination
with other substances as injectable formulations. MOTS-c is marketed for numerous uses,
including regulating mitochondrial energy, promoting the metabolism of fatty acid in the liver;
promoting metabolic homeostasis; improving glucose regulation; aiding in the resistance of
metabolic stress; protecting against insulin resistance; promoting weight loss, and improving
physical performance. In addition, MOTS-c is a prohibited substance on the Global DRO
database.

    C. Are There Concerns About the Safety of the Substance for Use in Compounding?

       1. Nonclinical Assessment
The nominator submitted nonclinical information. Specifically, they submitted 10 articles
describing pharmacological studies of MOTS-c (Fuku et al. 2015; Hu and Chen 2018; Kim et al.
2019; Lee et al. 2016; Lee et al. 2015; Lu et al. 2019a; Monteiro et al. 2019; Reynolds et al.
2021; Wei et al. 2020; Yang et al. 2019).

The following databases were consulted in preparation of this section: Drugs@FDA, Embase,
European Chemicals Agency, FDA’s Generally Recognized as Safe Notice Inventory, Google,
Google Scholar, National Institutes of Health’s dietary supplement label database, National
Toxicology Program website, Pharmapendium, PubMed, Society of Toxicology, USP, and Web
of Science.

The studies discussed in this section do not clearly identify the specific form of MOTS-c (free
base or salt) used in the different experiments. Therefore, throughout this section, we refer to
MOTS-c as it is referred to in the articles.

           a. General Pharmacology of the Drug Substance
As described in section II.A, MOTS-c is a naturally occurring mitochondrial hexadecapeptide
encoded by a transcript consisting of a 51-base pair short open reading frame within the
mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA type-c. According to Lee and collaborators, who first
sequenced MOTS-c, this mitochondrial peptide appears to be highly conserved across species
and is expressed in different tissues, including skeletal muscle, heart, and brain. In addition,
MOTS-c is present in the systemic circulation in humans and rodents (Lee et al. 2015). Figure 6
illustrates the sequence of MOTS-c, which is the active moiety of MOTS-c (free base) and
MOTS-c acetate.



                                                                                                    21
Figure 6. Amino Acid Sequence of MOTS-c (Excerpted From Knoop et al. 2019).




Nonclinical pharmacological studies have reported that MOTS-c affects glucose and lipid
metabolism, bone remodeling, and the cardiovascular system in in-vivo and in-vitro models.
Specifically, as discussed below, synthetic MOTS-c can according to the authors: (i) suppress
diet-induced obesity and diet- and age-dependent insulin resistance in mice (Kim et al. 2019; Lee
et al. 2015; Lee et al. 2016), (ii) promote osteogenesis in rat bone mesenchymal stem cells
(BMSCs) in vitro (Hu and Chen 2018), (iii) inhibit osteolysis in vivo and in vitro (Yan et al.
2019), and (iv) reduce vascular calcification and associated myocardial remodeling in a rat
model of vascular calcification (Wei et al. 2020).

MOTS-c on Glucose and Lipid Metabolism

Lee and collaborators reported that adult male CD-1 mice fed a high-fat diet (60% by calories)
and treated with intraperitoneal (IP) injections of MOTS-c (0.5 mg/kg/day) for 8 weeks gained
significantly less body weight than untreated male mice fed the same diet. At the end of the 8-
week treatment, MOTS-c-treated mice weighed ~20% less than vehicle-treated mice. The
reduced body weight gain of MOTS-c-treated mice was accompanied by increased energy
expenditure and reduced fat accumulation in the liver. In addition, treatment with MOTS-c
suppressed the hyperinsulinemia induced by high-fat diet in mice (Lee et al. 2015).

Evidence that MOTS-c can improve insulin sensitivity was obtained from two additional
experiments in the study by Lee and collaborators. In one experiment, adult male CD1 mice
treated with MOTS-c (5 mg/kg/day, IP) required ~30% higher glucose infusion rate than vehicle-
treated mice to maintain euglycemia during insulin stimulation. In addition, the MOTS-c
treatment increased insulin-stimulated glucose disposal rate without affecting hepatic glucose
production (Lee et al. 2015). In the other experiment, soleus muscles from older (12 months old)
male C57/BL6 mice were shown to be more insulin resistant than soleus mice from younger (3
months old) mice, and MOTS-c treatment (5 mg/kg/day, IP) of the older mice restored the
insulin sensitivity of their soleus muscles to levels comparable to those of the younger mice.
Specifically, ex vivo, insulin (60 μU/ml)-induced 2-deoxyglucose uptake into soleus muscles of
12-month-old mice treated with MOTS-c (5 mg/kg/day; IP) for 7 days was significantly higher
than that in soleus muscle from age-matched mice treated with saline and was comparable to that
in soleus muscle from 3-month-old mice treated with saline (Lee et al. 2015).

A separate study from the same research group reported that, in 17-week-old male C57/BL6J
mice made obese by a high-fat diet, MOTS-c treatment (2.5 mg/kg, IP, twice a day, 3 days)
compared to vehicle treatment (water, IP, twice a day, 3 days) significantly reduced (by ~50%)
blood glucose levels (Kim et al. 2019). Treatment with MOTS-c also reduced plasma levels of
oxidized glutathione in obese mice, a finding suggestive of reduced cellular oxidative stress. In
addition, treatment with MOTS-c decreased levels of plasma metabolites associated with three
lipid metabolism pathways: sphingolipid metabolism, monoacylglycerol metabolism, and fatty
acid dicarboxylate metabolism (Kim et al. 2019).



                                                                                                    22
MOTS-c was shown to prevent obesity and insulin resistance induced by ovariectomy (OVX) in
female mice (Lu et al. 2019b). Specifically, ovariectomized mice treated with MOTS-c (5
mg/kg/day, IP) for 12 weeks gained significantly less body weight than saline-treated,
ovariectomized mice. In addition, compared to the vehicle treatment, the MOTS-c treatment: (i)
increased glucose tolerance in ovariectomized mice, (ii) reduced OVX-induced fat accumulation,
(iii) increased brown fat activation in ovariectomized mice, (iv) decreased OVX-induced
upregulation of inflammatory cytokines (e.g., interleukin 1β and interleukin 6), and (v)
suppressed OVX-induced increase in levels of lipid oxidation markers in white adipose tissue
(Lu et al. 2019b).

Consistent with the findings that MOTS-c can improve metabolic homeostasis, acute treatment
of young (2 months old), middle-age (12 months old), and old (22 months old) CD-1 mice with
MOTS-c (5 mg/kg, IP) significantly enhanced their performance in a treadmill (Reynolds et al.
2021). Evidence was also provided that a 2-week treatment of treadmill-exercised old mice with
MOTS-c (15 mg/kg/day) compared to an equivalent vehicle treatment increased glucose
metabolism and upregulated expression of metabolism-associated genes in the mouse skeletal
muscles (Reynolds et al. 2021).

Intermittent treatment with MOTS-c (15 mg/kg; 3x/week) initiated late in the life of male
C57BL/6N mice (when the animals were 23.5 months old) increased not only their physical
capacity but also their lifespan (Reynolds et al. 2021). The median and maximal lifespans were
912 and 1047 days, respectively, for vehicle-treated mice and 970 and 1120 days, respectively,
for MOTS-c-treated mice.

The initial work by Lee and collaborators reported that the effects of MOTS-c on fatty acid
oxidation, glycolysis, and insulin resistance in mice fed with high-fat diet could not observed if
the animals were also treated with compound C, an inhibitor of the adenosine monophosphate-
activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling (Lee et al. 2015; Lee et al. 2016). This finding
suggested that MOTS-c-induced improvement of metabolic homeostasis in the mouse model of
obesity may be mediated, at least in part, by AMPK signaling (Lee et al. 2015).

Although the molecular mechanisms by which MOTS-c increases AMPK signaling remain
poorly understood, in-vitro experiments carried out in HEK-293 cells have shown that MOTS-c
(10 μM, up to 72-hour incubation) downregulates enzymes involved in the one-carbon metabolic
pathways, which include the folate and methionine cycles (Lee et al. 2015). As illustrated in
Figure 7 by reducing the activity of the one-carbon metabolic pathways and decreasing the de-
novo synthesis of purines, MOTS-c can cause accumulation of the intermediate 5-
aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide (AICAR), which is a well-known AMPK activator, that can, in
turn stimulate mitochondrial metabolism, fatty acid oxidation, glycolysis, and shunting of
glucose to the glucose phosphate pathway.




                                                                                                 23
Figure 7. Diagrammatic Representation of MOTS-c-Induced Regulation of Metabolic
Homeostasis in Skeletal Muscles (Adapted From Lee et al. 2015).




MOTS-c on Bone Remodeling

An in-vitro study demonstrated that MOTS-c can promote osteogenesis, i.e., the development of
bone cells (Hu and Chen 2018). In this study, rat BMSCs were subjected to in-vitro osteogenic
differentiation for 7 days in the absence or in the continuous presence of 1 μM MOTS-c (the
highest MOTS-c concentration that had no significant effect on BMSC proliferation). The
MOTS-c treatment of cultured BMSCs increased the cellular expression of osteogenesis-related
genes, including alkaline phosphatase (ALP), runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2), and
osteocalcin (also known as bone gamma-carboxyglutamic acid-containing protein or BGLAP).
The MOTS-c treatment also increased the presence of calcified nodules, a marker of
osteogenesis, in the cultured cells. The finding that the MOTS-c-induced osteogenesis was not
observed in BMSC cultures with a null expression of the gene that encodes the transforming
growth factor β (TGFβ) suggested that the osteogenic effect of MOTS-c depends, at least in part,
on the TGFβ signaling pathway, whose stimulation is known to promote bone remodeling (Hu
and Chen 2018).

In addition to inducing osteogenesis, MOTS-c can inhibit osteolysis, i.e., the breakdown of bone
tissue (Yan et al. 2019). In an in-vivo experiment, bone loss induced by implantation of ultra-
high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) particles in the calvaria (the uppermost part of
the skull) of adult male C57/BL6 mice was markedly reduced by local injection of MOTS-c (1
mM, 150 μL) once a day for 7 days in the UHMWPE-implanted area. In MOTS-c-treated,
UHMWPE-implanted mice, the reduced bone loss was accompanied by significantly reduced
number of osteoclasts (cells that degrade bone) per bone perimeter and markedly reduced the
surface area that was eroded. In the calvaria of MOTS-c-treated, UHMWPE-implanted mice, the
reduced numbers of cells positive for the osteoclast differentiation factor receptor activator of
nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL) was accompanied by increased numbers of cells positive for
the osteoclastogenesis inhibitor ostoprotegerin (Yan et al. 2019). As discussed below, data from
an in-vitro experiment provided evidence that the inhibitory effect of MOTS-c on
osteoclastogenesis was due to MOTS-c-induced suppression of secretion of osteoclast
differentiation factors from osteocytes (Yan et al. 2019).




                                                                                               24
In their in-vitro experiment, Yan and collaborators incubated primary cultures of mouse
osteocytes with MOTS-c (10, 20, or 30 μM) for 12 h, at which time the culture supernatants were
collected and applied to primary cultures of mouse bone marrow macrophages (BMMs) under
conditions that would favor the macrophage differentiation into osteoclasts. Supernatants from
MOTS-c-treated osteocytes were reported to significantly inhibited osteoclastogenesis, i.e., the
differentiation of BMMs into osteoclasts. Inhibition of osteoclastogenesis was greatest in
cultured BMMs incubated with supernatants from osteocytes that had been treated with the
highest MOTS-c concentration (30 μM). Conversely, osteoclastogenesis occurred in cultured
BMMs that were incubated with supernatants collected from primary cultures of osteocytes that
had been treated with MOTS-c (30 μM) plus the AMPK inhibitor compound C. These findings
led the authors to conclude that the anticlastogenic effect of MOTS-c is mediated, at least in part,
by its ability to increase the release of anticlastogenic factors from osteocytes via an AMPK-
dependent mechanism (Yan et al. 2019).

MOTS-c on Vascular Calcification and Myocardial Remodeling

Considering reports that AMPK signaling suppresses vascular calcification, i.e. the pathological
accumulation of calcium deposits in the walls of blood vessels that is associated with different
clinical conditions including obesity, Wei and collaborators investigated the effects of MOTS-c
in a rat model of vascular calcification (Wei et al. 2020). In this model, male Sprague-Dawley
rats that are exposed daily to nicotine (5 mg/kg/day, oral gavage) plus vitamin D3 (300,000
U/kg/day, intramuscular or IM) for 4 weeks present with decreased vascular tension, increased
blood pressure, and increased calcium deposition in the aorta in addition to myocardial
remodeling characterized by echocardiographic reductions of the internal diameter of the left
ventricle at diastole and systole. Treatment of the rats with MOTS-c (5 mg/kg/day, IP) during the
time they were being exposed to nicotine-plus-vitamin D3 significantly reduced the pathological
changes in vascular tension, blood pressure, aortic calcium deposition, and myocardial
remodeling (Wei et al. 2020).

The 4-week exposure of rats to vitamin D3-plus-nicotine also reduced the phosphorylation (and,
therefore, the activity) of AMPK and upregulated the expression of angiotensin II type 1
receptors (AT1Rs) and endothelin β receptors (ETβRs) in the aorta (Wei et al. 2020). Treatment
with MOTS-c prevented the reduction of levels of phosphorylated AMPK and the upregulation
of AT1Rs and ETβRs. The authors concluded that MOTS-c, most likely via AMPK-dependent
signaling mechanisms that may contribute to downregulation of AT1Rs and ETβRs, inhibits
vascular calcification and myocardial remodeling (Wei et al. 2020).

The pleiotropic pharmacological effects of MOTS-c on lipid and glucose metabolism, bone
remodeling, and vascular calcification have prompted interest of researchers on the potential
therapeutic effectiveness of this peptide for management of different clinical conditions,
including obesity and osteoporosis (reviewed in Lee et al. 2016; Monteiro et al. 2019). However,
caution is warranted in interpreting the potential clinical relevance of the nonclinical
pharmacological effects of MOTS-c. To date, nonclinical pharmacological studies of MOTS-c
have been limited to in-vivo and in-vitro rodent models and have not evaluated the dose-response
relationships for the effects of MOTS-c in vivo. In addition, although the pharmacological
effects of MOTS-c appear to depend, at least in part, on AMPK signaling, the molecular target(s)




                                                                                                 25
through which MOTS-c acts remains unknown. As such, it is difficult to predict which organs
might be targeted and affected by MOTS-c.

            b. Pharmacokinetics/Toxicokinetics
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify in-vivo
pharmacokinetic or toxicokinetic studies of MOTS-c.

The only pharmacokinetic-related study FDA identified in the biomedical literature was an in-
vitro study assessing the metabolic degradation of MOTS-c in human whole blood that had been
incubated with MOTS-c (5 μg/mL) at 37°C for 15 or 60 minutes (Knoop et al. 2019). Using high
resolution mass spectrometry, the authors identified the peptides MOTS-c(2–16), MOTS-c(3–16),
MOTS-c(4–16), and MOTS-c(5–16) in MOTSC-c-incubated human blood (Figure 8). The authors
stated that in-vitro proteolytic hydrolysis of MOTS-c into the shorter peptides was rapid and did
not require its long incubation with human blood (Knoop et al. 2019). It remains to be
determined whether exogenous administration of MOTS-c to humans can generate
pharmacologically active concentrations of the peptide over time.

Figure 8. Amino Acid Sequences of MOTS-c Metabolites in Human Blood Incubated With
MOTS-c In Vitro (Sequences Excerpted From Knoop et al. 2019).




            c. Acute Toxicity 30
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify acute
toxicity studies of MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate.




30
  Acute toxicity refers to adverse effects observed following administration of a single dose of a
substance, or multiple doses given within a short period (approximately 24 hours). For more information
on general approaches for acute toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry M3(R2)
Nonclinical Safety Studies for the Conduct of Human Clinical Trials and Marketing Authorization for
Pharmaceuticals (January 2010), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/71542/download.



                                                                                                      26
            d. Repeat-Dose Toxicity 31
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify repeat-
dose toxicity studies of MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate.

            e. Genotoxicity 32
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify
genotoxicity studies of MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate.

            f. Developmental and Reproductive Toxicity 33
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify
nonclinical developmental and reproductive studies of MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate.

            g. Carcinogenicity 34
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify
nonclinical carcinogenicity studies of MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate.

Conclusions: From the pharmacological perspective, nonclinical pharmacological studies
submitted by the nominator and identified by FDA indicate that, in rodent models, MOTS-c,
acting via AMPK-dependent mechanisms, can according to the authors: (i) improve glucose and


31
   Repeat-dose toxicity studies consist of in-vivo animal studies that seek to evaluate the toxicity of the
test substance when it is repetitively administered daily for an extended period. For more information on
general approaches for repeat-dose toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry M3(R2)
Nonclinical Safety Studies for the Conduct of Human Clinical Trials and Marketing Authorization for
Pharmaceuticals (January 2010), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/71542/download.
32
   The genotoxicity assessment battery usually consists of a gene mutagenicity assay (for single dose
trials) and a variety of clastogenicity/genotoxicity assays. To support multiple dose administration in
humans, additional genotoxicity testing assessment is usually conducted to detect chromosomal damage
in mammalian systems. For more information on general approaches for genotoxicity studies, please refer
to FDA’s guidance for industry S2(R1) Genotoxicity Testing and Data Interpretation for Pharmaceuticals
Intended for Human Use (June 2012), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/71980/download.
33
   Developmental and reproductive toxicity studies are usually designed to assess the potential adverse
effects of a substance within a complete reproductive cycle, from conception to reproductive capacity in
subsequent generations, and to identify the potential effects of a substance on pre-, peri-, and postnatal
development. Developmental toxicity or teratogenicity refers to adverse effects (can include embryo-fetal
mortality, structural abnormalities, functional impairment, or alterations to growth) and can occur in pups
either as a result of the exposure of their parents to the substance, prior to the pups’ birth, or by direct
exposure of the pups to the substance after birth. For more information on general approaches for
reproductive and developmental toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry S5(R3)
Detection of Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity for Human Pharmaceuticals (May 2021),
available at https://www.fda.gov/media/148475/download.
34
   Studies that assess cancer risk in animals are used as predictive tools to evaluate the potential for drugs
to cause tumors when used by humans on a chronic basis. Carcinogenicity studies are conducted if the
clinical use is expected to be continuous for a minimum of 6 months of life, or if intermittent clinical use
is expected to total 6 months or more of life. For more information on general approaches for
carcinogenicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry S1B Testing for Carcinogenicity of
Pharmaceuticals (July 1997), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/71935/download.



                                                                                                           27
lipid metabolism, (ii) increase osteogenesis and suppress osteolysis, and (iii) suppress vascular
calcification and associated myocardial remodeling. These nonclinical findings sparked interest
of researchers on the potential usefulness of MOTS-c as a pharmacological intervention for
different clinical conditions, including obesity and osteoporosis. However, the findings should be
interpreted with caution because the nonclinical pharmacological studies of MOTS-c published
to date have been restricted to rodent models and have not assessed dose-response relationships
for the different pharmacological effects of MOTS-c in vivo. In addition, while AMPK-
dependent signaling appears to contribute to the pharmacological effects of MOTS-c, the
molecular targets underlying the pharmacological effects of MOTS-c remain unknown making it
difficult to predict which organs are likely to be affected by MOTS-c.

Although the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify in-vivo studies assessing the
pharmacokinetic profile of MOTS-c, FDA identified an in-vitro study reporting that MOTS-c is
quickly hydrolyzed in human blood. This finding raises the question as to whether exogenous
administration of MOTS-c to humans can generate pharmacologically active concentrations of
the peptide over time. At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did
not identify nonclinical toxicity studies to inform safety considerations for potential clinical uses
of MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate.

       2. Human Safety
The following databases were consulted in the preparation of this section: PubMed, Embase,
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS),
ClinicalTrials.gov, professional healthcare organization websites, and various online clinical
references and websites. Note that throughout this section, the substance will be generally
referred to as MOTS-c unless otherwise specified as free base or acetate salt.

The nomination did not include, and FDA did not identify, information including human
exposure data to evaluate whether MOTS-c-related BDSs are safe for use in compounded
products.

           a. Pharmacokinetic Data
The nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify clinical studies that provided
pharmacokinetic data for MOTS-c-related BDSs.

           b. Reported Adverse Reactions
The Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology conducted searches of the FAERS database for
reports of adverse events for MOTS-c through February 28, 2024, and from February 26, 2024
through March 9, 2025. 35 The searches retrieved no reports.



35
  Compounders under section 503A of the FD&C Act generally do not report adverse events to FDA.
FDA encourages compounders, health care professionals, and consumers to report adverse events and
product quality concerns associated with compounded drugs to FDA’s MedWatch Adverse Event
Reporting program. Unless an adverse event report is submitted to FDA, the Agency may not be aware of
adverse events associated with a product compounded under section 503A.



                                                                                                   28
           c. Clinical Studies Assessing Safety
The nomination did not include, and FDA has not identified, any clinical studies or human
exposure data for MOTS-c via any route of administration. Therefore, potential safety risks
associated with the use of MOTS-c-related BDSs in humans are unknown.

           d. Other Safety Information
Immunogenicity and Aggregation Concerns

FDA has issued guidance regarding immunogenicity assessment for therapeutic protein
products. 36 The guidance describes immunogenicity as the propensity of a therapeutic protein
product to generate immune responses to itself and to related proteins including endogenous
proteins or peptides, or to induce immunologically related adverse clinical events. Although this
guidance addresses therapeutic protein products, the concerns about immunogenicity are also
relevant to peptides (such as MOTS-c), which can similarly elicit an immunogenic response; this
immunogenic response may be enhanced when peptides are given via SC route of administration
(ROA). In general, SC ROA is associated with increased immunogenicity compared to
intravenous (IV) ROA.

The consequences of triggering an immune response may range from antibody responses with no
apparent clinical manifestations to life-threatening and catastrophic reactions. Such outcomes are
often unpredictable in patients administered therapeutic protein or peptide products. One possible
consequence of the development of an immune response is the development of neutralizing
antibody activity that may lead to loss of efficacy or even result in the neutralization of the
activity of the endogenous peptide counterpart.

In addition, compared to small molecule active pharmaceutical ingredients, peptides are distinct
because they may have an inherent tendency to aggregate. Aggregation refers to the processes
through which peptides associate into larger species consisting of multiple peptide chains.
Aggregates can be highly ordered or amorphous and the formation can be reversible or
irreversible (Zapadka et al. 2017). Peptides with as few as two amino acids have been shown to
aggregate (Frederix et al. 2011). Aggregates can impact the pharmacology of the peptide. In
addition, aggregation is a risk factor in immunogenicity and for decreased pharmacotherapeutic
effect of the drug product due to effects on bioavailability, formation of precipitates, or anti-drug
antibody production (Ratanji et al. 2014).

The nominators did not provide, and FDA did not identify, clinical studies assessing
immunogenicity or aggregation of MOTS-c-related BDSs. MOTS-c-related BDSs contains 16
amino acids, and FDA is concerned about potential for immunogenicity when administered by an
injection ROA as proposed, due to the potential for aggregation, as well as potential peptide-
related impurities. Based on available information, there are insufficient data to conclude that
MOTS-c-related BDSs do not present these risks.




36
  See FDA’s guidance for industry Immunogenicity Assessment for Therapeutic Protein Products
(August 2014), available at https://www.fda.gov/media/85017/download.



                                                                                                   29
            e. Therapies That Have Been Used for the Condition(s) Under Consideration
There are FDA-approved drug products for weight reduction in patients with obesity and
treatment of osteoporosis. 37

Conclusions: There is a lack of clinical and nonclinical safety information on the use of MOTS-
c. FDA is particularly concerned about the lack of human data on drug products containing this
substance administered via any route of administration. MOTS-c is a peptide containing 16
amino acids for which there is a lack of information to assess its immunogenic safety risk.
Therefore, potential safety risks associated with the use of MOTS-c in humans are unknown.
There are currently available FDA-approved therapies for some of the nominated uses.

     D. Available Evidence of Effectiveness or Lack of Effectiveness of Drug Products
        Compounded With the Substance
The following databases were consulted in the preparation of this section: PubMed, Embase,
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, DailyMed, Drugs@FDA, relevant professional
healthcare organization websites, and various online clinical references and websites, such as
information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

MOTS-c-related BDSs were nominated for the following uses: insulin resistance, obesity, 38
osteoporosis, 39 vascular calcification, muscle/fat metabolism, and longevity. The nomination
cited 12 literature references in support of the nomination; these did not include clinical studies.




37
   FDA considers the existence of FDA-approved or OTC monograph drug products to treat the same
condition as that proposed for the nomination relevant to FDA’s consideration of the safety criterion, to
the extent there may be therapies that have been demonstrated to be safe under the conditions of use set
forth in the approved labeling. See 84 FR 4696.
38
   Obesity is defined by the increase in size and amount of fat cells in the body. Obesity is a chronic
health condition that increases the risk for heart disease and is linked to other health problems, such as
type 2 diabetes and cancer. Diagnosis may be based on medical history and high body mass index (BMI).
For adults, obesity is defined as BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2. Treatment options may involve dietary or nutritional
counselling, behavioral weight-loss programs, medicines, or surgery (See: Overweight and Obesity, NIH
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, accessed 8/23/2024,
https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/overweight-and-obesity).
39
   Osteoporosis is a bone disease that develops when bone mineral density (BMD) and bone mass
decreases or when the structure and strength of bone changes; this can lead to a decrease in bone strength
that can increase the risk of fractures. Osteoporosis is typically asymptomatic until fractures occur.
Treatment of osteoporosis aims to prevent fractures and may include nutrition, exercise, and medications
(See: Osteoporosis. NIH National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, accessed
3/20/2025, https://www.niams.nih.gov/health-topics/osteoporosis)



                                                                                                        30
We performed our own search of published medical literature and did not identify clinical studies
evaluating administration of MOTS-c-related BDSs in human subjects. 40

        1. Reports of Trials, Clinical Evidence, and Anecdotal Reports of Effectiveness, or Lack
           of Effectiveness, of the Bulk Drug Substance
We reviewed information from the nominator-cited references. The nominator has not provided
clinical evidence on the use of MOTS-c-related BDSs in insulin resistance, obesity, osteoporosis,
vascular calcification, muscle/fat metabolism, and longevity. We performed our own search of
published medical literature, and we did not identify data, such as clinical studies, evaluating the
administration of MOTS-c to humans.

        2. Whether the Product Compounded With This Bulk Drug Substance Is Intended To Be
           Used in a Serious or Life-Threatening Disease
Patients with obesity are at increased risk for many serious diseases and health conditions such
as type 2 diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and certain types of cancers. 41

Osteoporosis is associated with increased risk of potentially serious fractures which can generate
a heavy burden of morbidity and an increased risk of mortality (Leboime et al. 2010).

        3. Therapies That Have Been Used for the Condition(s) Under Consideration
There are FDA-approved drug products for weight reduction in patients with obesity and
treatment of osteoporosis. 42

Conclusion: There is a lack of evidence to evaluate the effectiveness of the MOTS-c-related
BDSs for the nominated uses. As discussed in section II.C.1, although nonclinical
pharmacological studies investigated the role of MOTS-c on biological processes that could be
relevant to the nominated uses, these studies were limited to in-vitro and in-vivo rodent models.
In addition, assessments of the dose-response relationships for the effects of MOTS-c are
missing, and the molecular target(s) through which MOTS-c acts remains unknown. It is difficult
to predict which organs might be targeted and affected by MOTS-c. Therefore, the clinical
relevance of the findings of these nonclinical studies is currently unknown. The nomination did
not include, and our evaluation did not identify, information on the use of MOTS-c-related BDSs
administered in humans in order to evaluate whether MOTS-c-related BDSs are appropriate for
the proposed uses in compounded drug products. Obesity and osteoporosis are serious conditions


40
   FDA did not evaluate the proposed uses: insulin resistance, obesity, osteoporosis, vascular calcification,
muscle/fat metabolism, longevity because the nomination did not include sufficient information for the
Agency to evaluate whether the substance is appropriate for these uses in compounded drug products. In
addition, FDA did not identify clinical studies evaluating these uses of MOTS-c. See 80 FR 65765 for the
information necessary to fully evaluate a substance for inclusion on the 503A Bulks List.
41
   See: How Overweight and Obesity Impacts Your Health, CDC website, https://www.cdc.gov/healthy-
weight-growth/food-activity/overweight-obesity-impacts-health.html. Accessed 8/23/2024.
42
   FDA considers the existence of FDA-approved or OTC monograph drug products to treat the same
condition as that proposed for the nomination relevant to FDA’s consideration of the effectiveness
criterion, to the extent there may be alternative therapies that have been demonstrated to be effective for
certain conditions. See 84 FR 4696.



                                                                                                          31
and there are FDA-approved therapies for weight reduction in patients with obesity and
treatment of osteoporosis.

III. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION
We have balanced the criteria described in section II above to evaluate MOTS-c related BDSs
for the 503A Bulks List. After considering the information currently available, a balancing of
the criteria weighs against MOTS-c free base or MOTS-c acetate being placed on that list
based on the following:

1. Conclusions on the physical and chemical characterization for each MOTS-c related BDS,
   MOTS-c (free base) and MOTS-c acetate, are included in subsections 1.1 and 1.2.

   1.1.

   MOTS-c (free base) is reported to be a peptide consisting of 16 amino acids. As reported in
   the literature, lyophilized MOTS-c (free base) is expected to be stable when stored below -
   20°C desiccated and protected from light.

   MOTS-c (free base) is considered to be not well-characterized from the physical and
   chemical characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do
   not follow established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2)
   BDS specific quality control attributes, including impurities, aggregates, and endotoxins,
   were not found in the publicly available scientific literature and lack of CoA in the
   nomination package which are offered as evidence to establishing identity, purity, and
   impurity profiles of the substance. Due to lack of information on the water solubility data of
   MOTS-c (free base) as well as the reconstitute concentration of proposed injectable final
   product, it is difficult to draw a conclusion if the water solubility of MOTS-c (free base) will
   be a potential issue to impact product performance for the proposed injectable dosage form.
   In addition, due to lack of information regarding potential peptide related impurities and
   potential of peptide aggregates that can be present in MOTS-c (free base) FDA cannot rule
   out the potential for immunogenicity associated with them, especially when administered by
   injection routes.

   1.2.

   MOTS-c acetate is reported to be an acetate salt of peptide consisting of 16 amino acids. As
   reported in the literature, MOTS-c acetate is expected to be stable under reported storage
   conditions (below -20°C).

   MOTS-c acetate is considered not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
   characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
   established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) certain
   critical characterization data specific to MOTS-c acetate (including impurities, aggregates,
   and microbial bioburden and/or bacterial endotoxin levels) were not found in the publicly
   available scientific literature, and the provided CoA, which was offered as evidence to
   establishing identity, purity, and impurity profiles of the substance. We cannot evaluate how
   the water solubility of MOTS-c acetate will impact the performance of the proposed



                                                                                                 32
   injectable final product due to lack of information on how to compound the proposed
   injectable product with known concentration. In addition, due to lack of information
   regarding potential peptide related impurities and potential of peptide aggregates that can be
   present in MOTS-c acetate FDA cannot rule out the potential for immunogenicity associated
   with them, especially when administered by injection routes.

2. MOTS-c was discovered in 2015. A search of published literature did not reveal studies in
   which compounded drug products containing MOTS-c or MOTS-c acetate were used in
   humans. OFs have not reported preparing single or multiple API compounded drug products
   containing MOTS-c or MOTS-c acetate. Internet search results indicate that injectable
   MOTS-c is marketed for different uses, including regulating mitochondrial energy,
   promoting the metabolism of fatty acid in the liver; promoting metabolic homeostasis;
   improving glucose regulation; aiding in the resistance of metabolic stress; protecting against
   insulin resistance; promoting weight loss, and improving physical performance. MOTS-c and
   MOTS-c acetate do not have an applicable USP or NF drug substance monograph and neither
   is a component of an FDA-approved drug. MOTS-c is listed as a prohibited substance in the
   Global DRO Database, which obtains information from the 2024 World-Anti-Doping
   Agency Prohibited List of Hormone and Metabolic Modulators.

3. There is a lack of evidence to evaluate the effectiveness of the MOTS-c-related BDSs for the
   nominated uses. Although nonclinical pharmacological studies investigated the role of
   MOTS-c on biological processes that could be relevant to the nominated uses, these studies
   were limited to in-vitro and in-vivo rodent models. In addition, assessments of the dose-
   response relationships for the effects of MOTS-c are missing, and the molecular targets
   through which MOTS-c acts remain unknown. It is difficult to predict which organs might be
   targeted and affected by MOTS-c. Therefore, the clinical relevance of the findings of these
   nonclinical studies is currently unknown. The nomination did not include, and our evaluation
   did not identify, information on the use of MOTS-c-related BDSs administered in humans in
   order to evaluate whether MOTS-c-related BDSs are appropriate for the proposed uses in
   compounded drug products. Obesity and osteoporosis are serious conditions and there are
   FDA-approved therapies for weight reduction in patients with obesity and treatment of
   osteoporosis.

4. There is a lack of clinical and nonclinical information on MOTS-c-related BDSs. FDA is
   particularly concerned about the lack of human data on drug products containing this
   substance delivered via any route of administration. MOTS-c is a peptide containing 16
   amino acids for which there is a lack of information to assess its immunogenic safety risk.
   Therefore, potential safety risks associated with the use of MOTS-c-related BDSs in humans
   are unknown. There are currently available FDA-approved therapies for some of the
   nominated uses.

On balance, the physicochemical characterization, information on historical use, lack of any
safety and effectiveness information in humans for both MOTS-c (free base) and MOTS-c
acetate weigh against their being added to the 503A Bulks List. FDA’s proposal is based on the
fact that these substances are not well-characterized from a physical and chemical
characterization perspective, unknown use in compounding, no available nonclinical data to
inform safety considerations for potential clinical uses of MOTS-c-related BDSs, and no clinical



                                                                                                33
studies to assess the safety and effectiveness of MOTS-c-related BDSs in humans. Accordingly,
we propose not adding MOTS-c (free base) or MOTS-c acetate to the 503A Bulks List.




                                                                                            34
IV. REFERENCES
Bhullar, KS, N Shang, E Kerek, K Wu and J Wu, 2021, Mitofusion Is Required for MOTS-c
Induced GLUT4 Translocation, Sci Rep, 11(1):14291.

Frederix, PW, RV Ulijn, NT Hunt and T Tuttle, 2011, Virtual Screening for Dipeptide
Aggregation: Toward Predictive Tools for Peptide Self-Assembly, J Phys Chem Lett,
2(19):2380-2384.

Fuku, N, H Pareja-Galeano, H Zempo, R Alis, Y Arai, A Lucia and N Hirose, 2015, The
Mitochondrial-Derived Peptide MOTS-C: A Player in Exceptional Longevity?, Aging Cell,
14(6):921-923.

Hu, BT and WZ Chen, 2018, Mots-C Improves Osteoporosis by Promoting Osteogenic
Differentiation of Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cells Via TGF-β/Smad Pathway, Eur Rev
Med Pharmacol Sci, 22(21):7156-7163.

Kim, SJ, B Miller, HH Mehta, J Xiao, J Wan, TE Arpawong, K Yen and P Cohen, 2019, The
Mitochondrial‐Derived Peptide MOTS‐c Is a Regulator of Plasma Metabolites and Enhances
Insulin Sensitivity, Physiol Rep, 7(13):e14171.

Knoop, A, A Thomas and M Thevis, 2019, Development of a Mass Spectrometry Based
Detection Method for the Mitochondrion‐Derived Peptide MOTS‐c in Plasma Samples for
Doping Control Purposes, Rap Comm Mass Spec, 33(4):371-380.

Leboime, A, C Confavreux, N Mehsen, J Paccou, C David and C Roux, 2010, Osteoporosis and
Mortality, Joint Bone Spine, 77(S2): S107-S112.

Lee, C, KH Kim and P Cohen, 2016, MOTS-c: A Novel Mitochondrial-Derived Peptide
Regulating Muscle and Fat Metabolism, Free Radic Biol Med, 100:182-187.

Lee, C, J Zeng, BG Drew, T Sallam, A Martin-Montalvo, J Wan, S-J Kim, H Mehta, AL
Hevener and R de Cabo, 2015, The Mitochondrial-Derived Peptide MOTS-c Promotes
Metabolic Homeostasis and Reduces Obesity and Insulin Resistance, Cell Metab, 21(3):443-454.

Lu, H, S Tang, C Xue, Y Liu, J Wang, W Zhang, W Luo and J Chen, 2019a, Mitochondrial-
Derived Peptide MOTS-c Increases Adipose Thermogenic Activation to Promote Cold
Adaptation, Int J Mol Sci, 20(10):2456.

Lu, H, M Wei, Y Zhai, Q Li, Z Ye, L Wang, W Luo, J Chen and Z Lu, 2019b, MOTS-C Peptide
Regulates Adipose Homeostasis to Prevent Ovariectomy-Induced Metabolic Dysfunction, J Mol
Med (Berl), 97(4):473-485.

Monteiro, A, G Scarlato, DF Cavalini and GE Shiguemoto, 2019, Humanin, MOTS-c and
Physical Exercise: A New Perspective, Biomed Res, 3:1-6.

Ratanji, KD, JP Derrick, RJ Dearman and I Kimber, 2014, Immunogenicity of Therapeutic
Proteins: Influence of Aggregation, J Immunotoxicol, 11(2):99-109.




                                                                                          35
Reynolds, JC, RW Lai, JS Woodhead, JH Joly, CJ Mitchell, D Cameron-Smith, R Lu, P Cohen,
NA Graham and BA Benayoun, 2021, MOTS-c Is an Exercise-Induced Mitochondrial-Encoded
Regulator of Age-Dependent Physical Decline and Muscle Homeostasis, Nat Commun, 12(1):1-
11.

Wei, M, L Gan, Z Liu, L Liu, J-R Chang, D-C Yin, H-L Cao, X-L Su and WW Smith, 2020,
Mitochondrial-Derived Peptide MOTS-c Attenuates Vascular Calcification and Secondary
Myocardial Remodeling Via Adenosine Monophosphate-Activated Protein Kinase Signaling
Pathway, Cardiorenal Med, 10(1):42-50.

Yan, Z, S Zhu, H Wang, L Wang, T Du, Z Ye, D Zhai, Z Zhu, X Tian and Z Lu, 2019, MOTS-c
Inhibits Osteolysis in the Mouse Calvaria by Affecting Osteocyte-Osteoclast Crosstalk and
Inhibiting Inflammation, Pharmacol Res, 147:104381.

Yang, Y, H Gao, H Zhou, Q Liu, Z Qi, Y Zhang and J Zhang, 2019, The Role of Mitochondria-
Derived Peptides in Cardiovascular Disease: Recent Updates, Biomed Pharmacother,
117:109075.

Zapadka, KL, FJ Becher, AL Gomes Dos Santos and SE Jackson, 2017, Factors Affecting the
Physical Stability (Aggregation) of Peptide Therapeutics, Interface Focus, 7(6):20170030.

Zheng, Y, Z Wei and T Wang, 2023, MOTS-c: A promising mitochondrial-derived peptide for
therapeutic exploitation. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne), 14:1120533.




                                                                                            36
V. APPENDICES
APPENDIX 1: AFFIRM HEALTH CENTER MOTS-c WEBPAGE (ACCESSED 3/20/24)




                                                                     37
APPENDIX 2: MYERS COCKTAIL IV THERAPY WEBPAGE (ACCESSED 3/20/24)




                                                                   38
 MOTS-c – Related Bulk Drug
Substances (MOTS-c (free base)
     and MOTS-c acetate)
         Nomination




                                 39
Does the substance have a UNII code?                                     A5CV6JFB78


What is the chemical grade of the substance?            Provided by FDA Registered Supplier/COA

                                                     Assay, Description, Solubility, etc.; Example of
What is the strength, quality, stability, and
purity of the ingredient?                          Certificate of Analysis for this chemical is attached.

How is the ingredient supplied?                                      Lyophilized Powder
Is the substance recognized in foreign
pharmacopeias or registered in other                                          No
countries?
Has information been submitted about the
substance to the USP for consideration of drug                                No
monograph development?
What dosage form(s) will be compounded using
                                                                          Injectable
the bulk drug substance?
What strength(s) will be compounded from the
                                                               5mg and 10mg Lyophilized Vial
nominated substance?
What is the anticipated route(s) of
administration of the compounded drug                              Subcutaneous Injection
product(s)?
                                                 Lee C, Zeng J, Drew BG, et al. The mitochondrial-derived
                                                 peptide MOTS-c promotes metabolic homeostasis and
                                                 reduces obesity and insulin resistance. Cell Metab.
                                                 2015;21(3):443-454. doi:10.1016/j.cmet.2015.02.009

                                                 Lee C, Kim KH, Cohen P. MOTS-c: A novel mitochondrial-
                                                 derived peptide regulating muscle and fat metabolism. Free
                                                 Radic Biol Med. 2016;100:182-187.
                                                 doi:10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2016.05.015

                                                 Lu H, Wei M, Zhai Y, et al. MOTS-c peptide regulates adipose
                                                 homeostasis to prevent ovariectomy-induced metabolic
                                                 dysfunction. J Mol Med (Berl). 2019;97(4):473-485.
                                                 doi:10.1007/s00109-018-01738-w

                                                 Kim SJ, Miller B, Mehta HH, et al. The mitochondrial-derived
                                                 peptide MOTS-c is a regulator of plasma metabolites and
                                                 enhances insulin sensitivity. Physiol Rep. 2019;7(13):e14171.
Are there safety and efficacy data on            doi:10.14814/phy2.14171
compounded drugs using the nominated             Crescenzo R, Bianco F, Mazzoli A, Giacco A, Liverini G, Iossa
substance?                                       S. A possible link between hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction
                                                 and diet-induced insulin resistance. Eur J Nutr. 2016;55(1):1-
                                                 6. doi:10.1007/s00394-015-1073-0

                                                 Hu BT, Chen WZ. MOTS-c improves osteoporosis by
                                                 promoting osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow
                                                 mesenchymal stem cells via TGF-β/Smad pathway. Eur Rev
                                                 Med Pharmacol Sci. 2018;22(21):7156-7163.
                                                 doi:10.26355/eurrev 201811 16247

                                                 Fuku N, Pareja-Galeano H, Zempo H, et al. The mitochondrial-
                                                 derived peptide MOTS-c: a player in exceptional
                                                 longevity?. Aging Cell. 2015;14(6):921-923.
                                                 doi:10.1111/acel.12389

                                                 Yang Y, Gao H, Zhou H, et al. The role of mitochondria-
                                                 derived peptides in cardiovascular disease: Recent
                                                 updates. Biomed Pharmacother. 2019;117:109075.
                                                 doi:10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109075

                                                                                                                  41
Has the bulk drug substance been used
                                                                    YES
previously to compound drug product(s)?
What is the proposed use for the drug        Insulin Resistance, Obesity, Osteoporosis, Vascular
product(s) to be compounded with the           Calcification, Muscle/Fat Metabolism, Longevity
nominated substance?
What is the reason for use of a compounded
drug product rather than an FDA-approved            no FDA-approved product available
product?
Is there any other relevant information?                  Added as an Attachment




                                                                                                   42
43
                  References included with nomination FDA-2015-N-3534-0293
Lu H, Tang S, Xue C, Liu Y, Wang J, Zhang W, Luo W, Chen J. Mitochondrial-Derived Peptide MOTS-
c Increases Adipose Thermogenic Activation to Promote Cold Adaptation. Int J Mol Sci. 2019 May
17;20(10):2456. doi: 10.3390/ijms20102456. PMID: 31109005; PMCID: PMC6567243.
Monteiro A, Scarlato G, Cavalini D, Shiguemoto G. Humanin, MOTS-c and physical exercise: A new
perspective. Biomedical Research and Reviews. Biomedical Research and Review. 2019. doi:
10.15761/brr.1000129.
Reynolds JC, Lai RW, Woodhead JST, Joly JH, Mitchell CJ, Cameron-Smith D, Lu R, Cohen P, Graham
NA, Benayoun BA, Merry TL, Lee C. MOTS-c is an exercise-induced mitochondrial-encoded regulator
of age-dependent physical decline and muscle homeostasis. Nat Commun. 2021 Jan 20;12(1):470. doi:
10.1038/s41467-020-20790-0. PMID: 33473109; PMCID: PMC7817689.
Wei M, Gan L, Liu Z, Liu L, Chang JR, Yin DC, Cao HL, Su XL, Smith WW. Mitochondrial-Derived
Peptide MOTS-c Attenuates Vascular Calcification and Secondary Myocardial Remodeling via
Adenosine Monophosphate-Activated Protein Kinase Signaling Pathway. Cardiorenal Med.
2020;10(1):42-50. doi: 10.1159/000503224. Epub 2019 Nov 6. PMID: 31694019.




                                                                                                 44
