FDA Briefing Document

       Pharmacy Compounding Advisory Committee (PCAC)
                          Meeting

                                    July 23 - 24, 2026




The attached package contains background information prepared by the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA or Agency) for the panel members of the Pharmacy Compounding Advisory
Committee (advisory committee). We are bringing certain compounding issues to this advisory
committee to obtain the advisory committee’s advice. The background package may not include all
issues relevant to the final committee recommendation and instead is intended to focus on issues
identified by the Agency for discussion by the advisory committee. The FDA will not issue a final
determination on the issues at hand until input from the advisory committee process has been
considered and all reviews have been finalized. The final determination may be affected by issues
not discussed at the advisory committee meeting.




                                                                                                    1
   KPV–Related
Bulk Drug Substances
(KPV (Free Base) and
    KPV acetate)




                       2
       FDA Evaluation of
KPV–Related Bulk Drug Substances
(KPV (Free Base) and KPV acetate)




                                4
DATE:           5/12/2026
FROM:           Jing Li, PhD
                Pharmaceutical Scientist, Office of Product Quality Assessment II (OPQA II),
                Office of Pharmaceutical Quality (OPQ)
                Nga-Lai Poon, PharmD
                Regulatory Specialist, Office of Compounding Quality and Compliance (OCQC),
                Office of Compliance (OC)
                Kemi Asante, PharmD, MPH, RAC
                Lead Consumer Safety Officer, OCQC, OC
                Edna Albuquerque, PhD
                Senior Pharmacology/Toxicology Reviewer, Division of
                Pharmacology/Toxicology for Rare Diseases, Pediatrics, Urologic, and
                Reproductive Medicine/Specialty Medicine (DPT-RPURM/SM), Office of New
                Drugs (OND)
                Andrea Benedict, PhD
                Nonclinical Supervisor, DPT-RPURM/SM, OND
                Emily Kneeream, PharmD
                Clinical Analyst, Pharmacy Compounding Review Team (PCRT), Office of
                Specialty Medicine (OSM), OND
                Suhail Kasim, M.D., MPH
                Lead Physician, PCRT, OSM, OND
THROUGH: Russell Wesdyk, BS, MBA
         Associate Director Regulatory Affairs, OPQA II, OPQ
                Alex Gorovets, M.D.
                Deputy Director, OSM, OND

                Matt Lash, J.D.
                Acting Director, OCQC, OC
                Deputy Director, OC

TO:             Pharmacy Compounding Advisory Committee
SUBJECT:        Evaluation of KPV-related Bulk Drug Substances (KPV (free base) and KPV
                acetate) for Inclusion on the 503A Bulk Drug Substances List
U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov




                                                                                               5
List of Abbreviations

 Abbreviation           Term
 AE                     adverse event
 α-MSH                  α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone
 API                    active pharmaceutical ingredient
 BPC                    Body Protection Compound
 BDS                    bulk drug substance
 CAS                    Chemical Abstracts Service
 CDC                    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
 CoA                    Certificate of Analysis
 FAERS                  FDA Adverse Events Reporting System
 FD&C Act               Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
 FDA                    Food and Drug Administration
 HFCS                   Human Foods Complaint Systems
 INN                    International Nonproprietary Names
 IUPAC                  International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry
 MF/MW                  Molecular formula/ Molecular weight
 KPV                    lysine-proline-valine
 NF                     National Formulary
 NIH                    National Institutes of Health
 OF                     outsourcing facility
 UNII                   Unique Ingredient Identifier
 USAN                   United States Adopted Name
 USP                    United States Pharmacopeia




                                                                            6
I.   INTRODUCTION
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA, the Agency, or we) received a nomination for KPV
(lysine-proline-valine) related bulk drug substances (BDSs) for inclusion on the list of BDSs that
can be used in compounding under section 503A of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(FD&C Act). 1 The nominator of KPV-related BDSs provided inconsistent information in the
nomination package regarding the specific BDS proposed. Specifically, it is unclear whether the
nomination was for KPV (free base) or KPV acetate. KPV (free base) and KPV acetate are
different active pharmaceutical ingredients and hence are considered different BDSs. Please see
additional information in section II.A. The nomination was withdrawn 2, and FDA is evaluating
the substances at its discretion.

KPV is reported to be a tripeptide composed of the amino acids lysine (K), proline (P), and
valine (V). Although it is unclear whether the nominator intended to nominate KPV (free base)
or KPV acetate, FDA has decided to evaluate both on its own initiative.

KPV-related BDSs were evaluated for the following uses: wound healing and inflammatory
conditions.3 The KPV-related drug products proposed in the nominations are cream and gel,
0.1% for topical administration.

There is no applicable United States Pharmacopeia (USP) or National Formulary (NF) drug
substance monograph for KPV (free base) or its acetate form, and neither are a component of an
FDA-approved drug.

We have evaluated publicly available data on physicochemical characteristics, historical use,
effectiveness, and safety in compounding of these substances. For the reasons discussed below,
we believe the evaluation criteria weigh against placing KPV (free base) or KPV acetate on the
list of bulk drug substances that can be used to compound drug products in accordance with
section 503A of the FD&C Act (503A Bulks List).




1
  The nomination of “KPV (lysine-proline-valine)” was from Wells Pharmacy Network (Document ID:
FDA-2015-N-3534-0294) can be accessed at: https://www.regulations.gov/document/FDA-2015-N-3534-
0294. The nomination was withdrawn, but because FDA is evaluating KPV (free base) and KPV acetate
on its own initiative, FDA considered information submitted in this nomination as part of this evaluation.
2
  Document ID: FDA-2015-N-3534-0484.
3
  We have explained that it is necessary to evaluate a nominated bulk drug substance in the context of the
uses proposed for compounded drug products that include the substance, though we acknowledge that
inclusion of a substance on the 503A Bulks List may not be limited to a specific use. See 84 FR 4696,
4701.



                                                                                                         7
II. EVALUATION CRITERIA

     A. Is the Substance Well-Characterized, Physically and Chemically? 4
KPV is a common name and not a United States Adopted Name (USAN). 5 FDA has encountered
multiple salts, and derivatives, including different active moieties, sold commercially under the
same common name for similarly situated products. Inconsistent naming conventions that do not
follow established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN 6, IUPAC 7, USAN) represent a
safety risk for patients as they may be dosed with a different BDS than the physician ordered.
From a chemical analysis standpoint, inconsistent naming conventions for KPV-related BDSs
also introduce risks because of the inability to determine which BDS a particular reference
standard is referencing.

A BDS or active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) 8 used in a drug product may be a free base
(i.e., the native molecule) or a salt or an ester of the free base, all of which share the same active
moiety. 9 Different active moieties are not interchangeable because they can have different safety
and efficacy profiles. A free base or the various salts or ester forms of an active moiety are

4
  Among the conditions that must be met for a drug compounded using bulk drug substances to be eligible
for the exemptions in section 503A of the FD&C Act is that the bulk drug substances are manufactured
by an establishment that is registered under section 510 of the FD&C Act and that each bulk drug
substance is accompanied by a valid certificate of analysis. Sections 503A(b)(1)(A)(ii) and (iii). A bulk
drug substance is deemed to be adulterated if the methods used in, or the facilities or controls used for, its
manufacture, processing, packing, or holding do not conform to or are not operated or administered in
conformity with current good manufacturing practice. Section 501(a)(2)(B).
5
  United States Adopted Name (USAN) is a unique, nonproprietary name for a drug sold in the United
States. The USAN Council, which is sponsored by several organizations, assigns USANs. This program
and naming convention are intended to help physicians, pharmaceutical manufacturers of active
ingredients and finished dosage forms, and pharmacists ensure that the patient is provided with the drug
the physician intended.
6
  International Nonproprietary Names (INN) facilitate the identification of pharmaceutical substances or
active pharmaceutical ingredients. Each INN is a unique name that is globally recognized and is public
property. A nonproprietary name is also known as a generic name.
7
  The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) is an international federation of
National Adhering Organizations working for the advancement of the chemical sciences, especially by
developing nomenclature and terminology.
8
  The terms BDS and API are used interchangeably in the compounding context. See 21 CFR 207.3
(“Bulk drug substance, as referenced in sections 503A(b)(1)(A) and 503B(a)(2) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, previously defined in § 207.3(a)(4), means the same as "active pharmaceutical
ingredient" as defined in § 207.1.”). An API is defined in FDA regulations at 21 CFR 207.1, which states
“Active pharmaceutical ingredient means any substance that is intended for incorporation into a finished
drug product and is intended to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis,
cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or any function of the body.
Active pharmaceutical ingredient does not include intermediates used in the synthesis of the substance.”
9
  “Active moiety is the molecule or ion, excluding those appended portions of the molecule that cause the
drug to be an ester, salt (including a salt with hydrogen or coordination bonds), or other noncovalent
derivative (such as a complex, chelate, or clathrate) of the molecule, responsible for the physiological or
pharmacological action of the drug substance.”21 CFR 314.3.



                                                                                                             8
distinct APIs, each with a different chemical structure and unique physical/chemical, or
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic characteristics. As a result, each may offer distinct
properties (e.g., different solubilities, permeability, melting points, stability, or flow
characteristics) and may also have different safety and/or efficacy profiles. All distinct active
moieties, as well as free bases, salts, or esters of any given active moiety, are distinct BDSs for
these reasons.

For the purpose of this assessment, we will consider both KPV (free base) and KPV acetate and
will evaluate the physical and chemical characterization of each. Table 1 below summarizes
available identifying information obtained from public domain for each BDS.

Table 1. Summary of Basic Information on KPV (Free Base) and KPV Acetate.
 Characteristic              KPV (Free Base)                      KPV Acetate
 UNII Code
      10
                               Not available                      Not available
                                                        The CAS number used is the same
 CAS No.                       67727-97-3
                                                               as KPV (free base)*
 MF/MW (g/mol)              C16H30N4O4/342.43           C16H30N4O4·CH3COOH/402.5 11,12
 Peptide
                            H-Lys-Pro-Val-OH              H-Lys-Pro-Val-OH .CH3COOH
 Sequence
 Supplier 13                       Yes                                Yes
 Active Moiety                KPV (free base)                    KPV (free base)
* CAS is an abbreviation of Chemical Abstracts Service. The CAS number for KPV acetate is the same as that for
KPV (free base) in most public references (for more information, see the Echemi website for KPV, available at:
https://www.echemi.com/produce/pr2305301691-kpv-peptide-alpha-msh-11-13-acetate-salt-98-white-powder-
youngshe.html; and the JennysChem website for KPV, available at: https://jennyschem.com/lys-pro-val-nh2-kpv-
acetate-salt-67727-97-3/). MF/MW: molecular formula/molecular weight; UNII: Unique Ingredient Identifier

One nomination was submitted, which, as discussed above, was later withdrawn. The nominator
provided inconsistent information about the different KPV BDSs in their nomination package.
Due to inconsistencies in the nomination, it is unclear which KPV-related BDS the nominator
intended to nominate. For example, the certificate of analysis (CoA) submitted with the
nomination refers to one BDS by name in the title and a different BDS by the molecular formula.
All chemistry-related information about the BDSs provided by the nominator is summarized in
Table 2.


10
   The Unique Ingredient Identifier (UNII) is an alphanumeric identifier linked to a substance's molecular
structure or descriptive information and is generated by the Global Substance Registration System
(GSRS) of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
11
   See the Echemi website for KPV, available at: https://www.echemi.com/produce/pr2305301691-kpv-
peptide-alpha-msh-11-13-acetate-salt-98-white-powder-youngshe.html. Accessed April 03, 2025.
12
   See the JennysChem product page for KPV, available at: https://jennyschem.com/lys-pro-val-nh2-kpv-
acetate-salt-67727-97-3/. Accessed April 03, 2025.
13
   The existence of a supplier of BDS may be relevant to FDA’s characterization analysis because it
indicates that consistent production of the BDS according to a standard may be possible. BDSs with
suppliers are also frequently accompanied by certificates of analysis (COAs) associated with their
production, which can help FDA to identify and characterize BDSs.



                                                                                                                 9
Table 2. Summary of Information Submitted in the Withdrawn Nomination.
 Nominator           1
 Nominated BDS       KPV
 BDS per UNII
                     Not available
 Code
 CoA                 CoA provided for KPV Acetate
 CAS No.             67727-97-3 (matches KPV free base)
                     C16H30N4O4 (provided in the nomination package/CoA that matches KPV
 MF
                     free base)
 MW (g/mol)          Not provided
                     (2S)-2-[[(2S)-1-[(2S)-2,6-diaminohexanoyl]pyrrolidine-2-
 Chemical Name
                     carbonyl]amino]-3-methylbutanoic acid (matches KPV free base)
Italics in the table above represents the information identified by the FDA.

Due to FDA’s significant safety concerns related to this nomination/BDS, FDA is choosing to
concurrently evaluate both BDSs (KPV (free base) and KPV acetate) in this section under two
different subsections (II.A.1 and II.A.2) and will provide a separate conclusion for each of the
two BDSs.

The nominator has proposed to compound this BDS into the following dosage form:

     •   Cream/Gel with the Strength of 0.1% for Topical Use

There is no USP drug substance monograph for KPV (free base) or its acetate salt. We reviewed
physical and chemical characterization-related information provided by the nominator and
performed a literature search for additional information on KPV (free base) and its acetate,
especially those that may impact the performance for the proposed cream/gel dosage forms.
Databases searched for information on KPV (free base) and its acetate in preparation of this
section included SciFinder, Analytical Profiles of Drug Substances, PubMed, the European
Pharmacopoeia, and the USP-NF.

     1. KPV (Free Base)
KPV is reported to be a tripeptide composed of the amino acids lysine (K), proline (P), and
valine (V). It is naturally produced in the body and is a fragment derived from the neuropeptide
produced in the pituitary gland called α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH) 14. The
molecular formula of KPV (free base) is C16H30N4O4 and its molecular weight is 342.43 g/mol.
Its chemical structure is shown in Figure 1. There is no CoA for KPV (free base) in the
nomination.




14
  See the MindBodyFunctionalMedicine website for KPV, available at:
https://mindbodyfunctionalmedicine.com/blog/peptide-therapy-kpv-the-anti-inflammation-pro-healing-
peptide/. Accessed August 26, 2024.



                                                                                                     10
Figure 1. The Chemical Structure of KPV (Free Base). 15




            a. Stability of the API and Likely Dosage Forms
It is reported that lyophilized KPV (free base) is stable up to 3 years when stored at -20°C in a
tightly closed container, up to 2 years at 4°C, and up to 3 months at 15°C. Upon reconstitution,
reports indicate the aqueous solution is recommended to be stored at -80°C for 6 months, at -2°C
for 1 month, and 10°C for 1 week. 16

FDA notes that peptides can be extremely sensitive to product formulation, process, and
environmental conditions (e.g., pH, heat (temperature), concentration, in-process related
impurities, excipients etc.), which may lead to the aggregation and degradation of peptides. This
could result in loss of their biological activity (Zapadka et al. 2017). Multiple analytical methods
may be needed to detect various aggregates, including size exclusion chromatography or field
flow fractionation. Hence, peptides may require more and/or specific analytical in-process and
finished product testing for impurities than what is required for small molecules. Uncontrolled
manufacturing processes as well as impurities may increase the risk of product aggregation.
Significant amounts of aggregates can form in formulated products, especially during storage or
when exposed to stress conditions. Therefore, product formulation is critical to the quality and
stability of peptide drug products, as it is necessary to maintain the peptide molecules in their
native state (in the formulation) to the extent possible.

            b. Probable Routes of API Synthesis
KPV was reported to be synthesized via the following four steps:
1. Using a polymer-bonded polyoxyethylene-RAM (Rink Amide linker) resin as a synthetic
   solid phase substrate and pretreating it.
2. Adding N-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl-AA-OH and a polypeptide linking reagent to the resin
   for amino acid synthesis, washing the resin, and removing N- protected with
   methoxycarbonyl, cleaning the resin again.




15
   See the Peptide Sciences website for KPV 5 mg, available at: https://www.peptidesciences.com/kpv-
5mg. Accessed April 10, 2025.
16
   See the CoA for KPV 2 mg, available at: https://www.uk-
peptides.com/image/catalog/COA/COA%20PEPTIDES%20WEBSITE%2042.pdf. Accessed August 26,
2024.



                                                                                                   11
3. The peptide chain obtained is carboxylated by acetic acid or dichloromethane to obtain a
   carboxylated peptide chain.
4. Cutting the peptide chain with trifluoroacetic acid, triisopropylsilane and water, washing
   same with methyl tributyl ether, and centrifuging same for precipitation, and drying the
   precipitate and purifying same using HPLC (high-performance liquid chromatography) to
   obtain KPV peptide. 17

             c. Likely Impurities 18
Generally speaking, peptide-related impurities and peptide synthesis process-related impurities
contribute to and are considered in understanding the impurity profile for all peptides, including
KPV (free base). For most synthetic peptides, solid-phase peptide synthesis method has been
widely used by industry for peptide synthesis. The solid-phase synthesis of peptides may lead to
potential peptide-related impurities due to incomplete coupling reactions, truncations, or side
reactions. These peptide-related impurities are typically similar in structure to the target peptide
and may be difficult to identify and quantify without sophisticated analytical methods.
Additional potential common impurities may be derived from impurities in the protected amino
acid starting materials (e.g., isomeric impurities and free amino acids) and other species that may
carry over into drug substances. In addition, residual solvents, coupling reagents, activators,
catalysts, and scavengers may exist as solid-phase peptide synthesis process related impurities.
Drug substance and its proposed product-related impurities may also include peptide-related
aggregates.

There is no CoA for KPV (free base) in the nomination. We conducted literature searches and
found that most of CoA for KPV (free base) only contains purity testing result, as shown in the
example CoA below (Figure 2). 19 However, there is no information on the impurity limits/testing
results as attribute control in the CoA to demonstrate quality control of impurity profile of KPV
(free base). In addition, there is lack of information on the potential of peptide aggregation for
KPV (free base).




17
   See the patent for the preparation of KPV and analogs thereof, available at:
https://patents.google.com/patent/WO2017107241A1/en. Accessed August 26, 2024.
18
   This evaluation contains a non-exhaustive list of potential impurities in the bulk drug substance and
does not address fully the potential safety concerns associated with those impurities. The compounder
should use the information about the impurities identified in the certificate of analysis accompanying the
bulk drug substance to evaluate any potential safety and quality issues associated with impurities in a drug
product compounded using that bulk drug substance taking in account the amount of the impurity, dose,
route of administration, and chronicity of dosing. When available, nonclinical toxicity data for likely
impurities of concern (e.g., nitrosamines, potential mutagenic substances, and potential teratogenic
substances) in the nominated bulk drug substance are discussed in the Nonclinical Assessment at
Section D.1. as part of the safety assessment of the substance.
19
   See the UK Peptides website for KPV 2 mg, available at: https://www.uk-peptides.com/kpv-2mg.
Accessed August 26, 2024.



                                                                                                         12
Figure 2. Example of a Certificate of Analysis for KPV (Free Base).




            d. Physicochemical Characteristics Pertinent to Product Performance, Such as
               Particle Size and Polymorphism
KPV (free base) is white to off-white lyophilized powder. Based on the publicly available
literature, KPV (free base) is soluble in water up to 0.70 mg/mL. 20

For topical drug products such as creams, solubility and particle size are generally important
characteristics for BDS that need to be controlled to ensure potency uniformity. If BDS is soluble
in the vehicle, then potency uniformity would be based largely upon adequate distribution of the
component throughout the mix. If the BDS is insoluble in the vehicle, then in addition to
assuring uniformity of distribution in the mix, potency uniformity depends upon control of
particle size, and use of a validated mixing process. Particle size can also affect the activity of
the drug substance because the smaller the particle size the greater its surface area, which may
influence its activity.

Because the nominator did not provide any information on how to compound proposed cream or
gel final product, especially what vehicle will be used, we cannot evaluate how the



20
  See the CoA for KPV 2 mg, available at: https://www.uk-
peptides.com/image/catalog/COA/COA%20PEPTIDES%20WEBSITE%2042.pdf. Accessed August 26,
2024.



                                                                                                 13
physicochemical characteristics of KPV (free base), especially solubility and particle size, will
impact the performance of the proposed final product(s).

            e. Any Other Information About the Substance That May Be Relevant, Such as
               Whether the API Is Poorly Characterized or Difficult to Characterize
Because there is a lack of CoA for KPV (free base), we do not know if microbiological tests,
which are required for topical products, are in place to control microbiological quality of the
BDS proposed for compounding cream/gel dosage form. Lack of control of microbiological
quality of a BDS (e.g., establishing an acceptable level of microorganisms) may affect
physical/chemical stability or effectiveness of product. No such relevant information was
identified in the public domain.

Conclusions: KPV (free base) is reported to be a small peptide consisting of three amino acids,
including lysine (K), proline (P), and valine (V). As reported in the literature, KPV (free base) is
expected to be stable for up to 3 years when stored at -20°C.

KPV (free base) is deemed to be not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) BDS specific
quality control attributes, including impurities, aggregates, and microbiological tests, were not
found in the publicly available scientific literature and lack of a CoA in the nomination package
which are offered as evidence to establishing identity, purity, and impurity profiles of the
substance.

In addition, due to lack of information on the formulation of proposed cream/gel final products,
we cannot evaluate how the physical and chemical characteristics, especially limited water
solubility (0.7 mg/mL) and particle size, impact the performance of final products.

       2. KPV Acetate
KPV acetate is reported to be an acetate salt form of KPV (free base) peptide of three amino
acids. The molecular formula of KPV acetate is C16H30N4O4·CH3COOH and its molecular
weight is 402.5 g/mol. The chemical structure of KPV acetate is shown in Figure 3.

Figure 3. The Chemical Structure of KPV Acetate.




The nominator provided the following CoA for KPV acetate with the quality control attribute
testing results, including identification, amino acid composition, assay, related substances




                                                                                                    14
(impurities), water content and acetate content (Figure 4). There are no testing results for the
quality control attribute on aggregates and microbiological testing levels.

Figure 4. Example of a Certificate of Analysis for KPV Acetate.




           a. Stability of the API and Likely Dosage Forms
Based on the CoA provided by the nominator, long-term storage conditions for KPV acetate are
“in a sealed container at 2°C to 8°C”.

FDA notes that peptides can be extremely sensitive to product formulation, process, and
environmental conditions (e.g., pH, heat (temperature), concentration, in-process related
impurities, excipients etc.), which may lead to the aggregation and degradation of peptides. This
could result in loss of their biological activity (Zapadka et al. 2017). Multiple analytical methods
may be needed to detect various aggregates, including size exclusion chromatography or field
flow fractionation. Hence, peptides may require more and/or specific analytical in-process and
finished product testing for impurities than what is required for small molecules. Uncontrolled
manufacturing processes as well as impurities may increase the risk of product aggregation.
Significant amounts of aggregates can form in formulated products, especially during storage or
when exposed to stress conditions. Therefore, product formulation is critical to the quality and
stability of peptide drug products, as it is necessary to maintain the peptide molecules in their
native state (in the formulation) to the extent possible.

It was reported that KPV acetate forms Lys–Pro–DKP (DKP: lys–pro–diketopiperazine) as one
of the major degradation products under various forced degradation conditions, including acid
and alkaline hydrolysis, and oxidative degradation by H2O2. Under basic conditions, KPV
acetate produced several nonpolar degradation products (DP1, DP2 and DP3: degradation



                                                                                                   15
products without elucidation of the structure) in addition to Lys–Pro–DKP. When treated with
0.5% H2O2, the reaction was rapid, and KPV acetate degraded to Lys–Pro–DKP, proline and
valine. 21

             b. Probable Routes of API Synthesis
KPV (free base) can be synthesized using the solid-phase synthesis methodology, as mentioned
in A.1.b. Then, the free base can be converted into acetate form of KPV (free base).

             c. Likely Impurities 22
Generally speaking, peptide-related impurities and peptide synthesis process-related impurities
contribute to and are considered in understanding the impurity profile for all peptides, including
KPV acetate. For most synthetic peptides, solid-phase peptide synthesis method has been widely
used by industry for peptide synthesis. The solid phase synthesis of peptides may lead to
potential peptide-related impurities due to incomplete coupling reactions, truncations, or side
reactions. These peptide-related impurities are typically similar in structure to the target peptide
and may be difficult to identify and quantify without sophisticated analytical methods.
Additional potential common impurities may be derived from impurities in the protected amino
acid starting materials (e.g., isomeric impurities and free amino acids) and other species that may
carry over into drug substances. In addition, residual solvents, coupling reagents, activators,
catalysts, and scavengers may exist as solid phase peptide synthesis process-related impurities.
Drug substance and its proposed product-related impurities may also include peptide-related
aggregates.

In the CoA the nominator provided there is total impurity limit of ≤2.0% with the testing result
of 0.9% and any individual impurity limit of ≤1.0% with the testing result of 0.24% for KPV
acetate. However, there is no information on the nature of single impurity in the nomination. In
addition, there is no information on what synthetic method is used to produce nominated KPV
acetate, it is difficult to predict the nature of individual impurity as well as peptide-related
aggregates.




21
   See the PhD dissertation by Kasturi Pawar (Auburn University, Alabama) entitled: Microneedle-
Assisted Iontophoretic Transdermal Delivery Of Drugs; available at:
https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=394644499822140e9922599fe8efbb65
5f105976#:~:text=Under%20various%20forced%20degradation%20conditions%2C%20KPV%20forms,a
s%20shown%20in%20Fig.%205.4A%2C%205.4B%20and. Accessed April 10, 2025.
22
   This evaluation contains a non-exhaustive list of potential impurities in the bulk drug substance and
does not address fully the potential safety concerns associated with those impurities. The compounder
should use the information about the impurities identified in the certificate of analysis accompanying the
bulk drug substance to evaluate any potential safety and quality issues associated with impurities in a drug
product compounded using that bulk drug substance taking into account the amount of the impurity, dose,
route of administration, and chronicity of dosing. When available, nonclinical toxicity data for likely
impurities of concern (e.g., nitrosamines, potential mutagenic substances, and potential teratogenic
substances) in the nominated bulk drug substance are discussed in the Nonclinical Assessment at Section
D.I. as part of the safety assessment of the substance.



                                                                                                         16
            d. Physicochemical Characteristics Pertinent to Product Performance, Such as
               Particle Size and Polymorphism
KPV acetate is a white to off-white solid powder. It is reported to dissolve in water at
5 mg/mL. 23 Therefore, water solubility and particle size will not be issues of concern for the
proposed cream/gel dosage forms.

            e. Any Other Information About the Substance That May Be Relevant, Such as
               Whether the Bulk Drug Substance is Poorly Characterized or Difficult to
               Characterize Polymorphism
In the CoA the nominator provided, there is no testing data for microbiological quality control of
KPV acetate, which are required for topical products, to control the BDS proposed for
compounding cream/gel dosage forms. Lack of control of microbiological quality of a BDS (e.g.,
presence of unacceptable level of microorganisms) may affect the physical/chemical stability,
safety, or effectiveness of the product. No such relevant information was identified in the public
domain.

Conclusions: KPV acetate is reported to be an acetate salt form of KPV (free base) peptide
consisting of three amino acids. As reported in the literature, KPV acetate is expected to be
stable under reported storage conditions (at 2°C to 8°C).

KPV acetate is deemed to be not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) lack of
information on the nature of individual impurity, potential peptide related aggregates, as well as
microbiological testing data, none of which were found in the CoA or reported in publicly
available scientific literature.

In addition, due to lack of information on the formulation of proposed cream/gel final products,
we cannot evaluate how the physical and chemical characteristics, such as particle size, impact
the performance of final products.

     B. Has the Substance Been Used Historically in Compounding?
This evaluation focuses on KPV (free base) and KPV acetate for the topical route of
administration and its use in wound healing and inflammatory conditions; however, FDA
searched generally for information on the historical use of KPV (free base) and KPV acetate in
compounding. Information about use may not specify specific attributes of the product, such as
route of administration. Databases searched for information on both substances for this
evaluation included PubMed, EMBASE, Google/Google Scholar, Micromedex, Clinical
Pharmacology, NatMedPro Database, USP-NF, European Pharmacopoeia, Japanese
Pharmacopoeia, European Medicines Agency, GlobalEdge.com, and the Outsourcing Facility




23
  See the PeptideSciences website for KPV 5 mg, available at: https://www.peptidesciences.com/kpv-
5mg. Accessed August 26, 2024.



                                                                                                     17
(OF) Product Reporting Database. 24 It is often unclear whether the KPV discussed in this section
is the salt form or the free base and whether it was compounded or not. Therefore, FDA will
consider the information discussed in this section in its evaluation for both the free base and salt
form as appropriate.

       1. Length of Time the Substance Has Been Used in Compounding
The nominator did not provide historical use data.

The earliest and extent of KPV (free base) and KPV acetate use in compounding is unknown. No
published studies were found in which non-compounded or compounded drug products
containing KPV (free base) or KPV acetate were used in humans. According to OF reports
submitted to the FDA, OFs have not reported preparing single or multiple-API compounded drug
products containing KPV (free base) or KPV acetate from January 2017 to June 2025. 25

       2. The Medical Condition(s) It Has Been Used to Treat
Results from a Google search indicate that KPV as a single ingredient and in combination with
other substances is promoted on websites.

The websites assert that single ingredient KPV is used for a wide array of inflammatory
conditions, improves wound healing and skin health, strengthens the immune system, protects
against nerve damage and stroke, 26 promotes gut health, acts as an antimicrobial, reduces tumor
growth in the body (Appendix 1), and is effective in treating psoriasis. 27 KPV is also promoted
for inflammatory bowel diseases, colitis, and Crohn’s disease. 28 It is promoted as helpful in mast
cell activation syndrome, histamine intolerance, recovery from COVID-19, Lyme disease, mold
toxicity, and pain syndromes. 29 It is unclear whether compounded products are being used in all
of these instances.




24
   See the FDA Outsourcing Facility Product Report Database, available at:
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/outsourcingfacility/.
25
   The Drug Quality and Security Act, signed into law on November 27, 2013, created a new section 503B
in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Under section 503B, a compounder can become an
outsourcing facility. Outsourcing facilities are required to provide FDA with a list of drugs they
compounded during the previous six-month period upon initial registration and in June and December
each year. This retrospective information does not identify drugs that outsourcing facilities intend to
produce in the future. See the FDA Outsourcing Facility Product Report Database, available at:
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cder/outsourcingfacility/.
26
   See the GeneMedics website for KPV, available at: https://www.genemedics.com/kpv. Accessed
2/10/24.
27
   See the Guyer Consulting webpage on immune peptides, available at: https://guyerwc.com/peptides/.
Accessed 8/15/24.
28
   See the website of Dr. Toni Varela on peptide therapy, available at:
https://www.drtonivarela.com/peptide-therapy. Accessed 2/10/24.
29
   See the Peak Health Institute website on KPV, available at https://www.peakhealthinstitute.com/the-
power-of-kpv-peptide-a-game-changer-in-functional-regenerative-medicine/. Accessed 12/4/25.



                                                                                                     18
KPV is promoted as a compounded drug product in combination with BPC-157, TB-500,
AOD9604, and Follistatin-344 as a “regenerative combo” for muscle, joint, and cartilage
repair. 30

        3. How Widespread Its Use Has Been
Results from an internet search for compounded drug products containing KPV (free base) or
KPV acetate revealed that online websites offer options for obtaining KPV from compounding
pharmacies through use of telemedicine and online consultations. 31 Several websites promote
KPV as single-API injectable 32, oral 33, topical, and nasal spray 34 drug products, as well as multi-
API products containing substances such as BPC-157, TB-500, AOD-9604, and Follistatin-
344. 35

OFs have not reported compounding drug products containing KPV (free base) or KPV acetate
from 2017 to June 2025.

        4. Recognition of the Substance in Other Countries or Foreign Pharmacopeias
A search of the European Pharmacopoeia (11.8 edition, 2025), and the Japanese Pharmacopoeia
(18th Edition) did not show any monograph listings for KPV (free base) or KPV acetate. The
European Medicines Agency did not list any products containing KPV (free base) or KPV
acetate that are authorized for use.

Conclusions: It is often unclear whether the KPV discussed in the sources considered for this
section are the salt formulation or the free base. Available literature indicates that the extent of
KPV (free base) or KPV acetate use in compounding is unknown. Published literature did not
reveal studies in which compounded drug products containing KPV (free base) or KPV acetate
were used in humans. According to the Outsourcing Facility Product Reports, outsourcing
facilities did not report compounding drug products containing KPV (free base) or KPV acetate.
Based on internet searches, it appears that compounders promote KPV as injectable, oral, topical

30
   See the Age Management of West Michigan website on KPV, available at:
https://www.agemanagementmi.com/kpv. Accessed 8/15/24.
31
   For examples, see the following websites: The Dr. Toni Varela website on peptide therapy, available at:
https://www.drtonivarela.com/peptide-therapy; the BluVida website on peptide therapy, available at:
https://bluvida.com/peptide-therapy/; and the Fallon Wellness Pharmacy website, available at:
https://fallonwellnesspharmacy.com/product-category/peptides/. Accessed 2/10/24.
32
   See the BluVida website on KPV peptide, available at: https://bluvida.com/encyclopedia/peptide-kpv-
peptide/. Accessed 8/15/24.
33
   See the Peak Health Institute website on KPV, available at https://www.peakhealthinstitute.com/the-
power-of-kpv-peptide-a-game-changer-in-functional-regenerative-medicine/; and the Age Management of
West Michigan website on KPV, available at: https://www.agemanagementmi.com/kpv. Accessed
8/15/24.
34
   See the Wellness Lounge on KPV: available at https://www.akwellnesslounge.com/blog/peptide-
spotlight-kpv and RegenFx Wellness, available at https://regenivwellness.com/kpv-peptide. Accessed
12/4/25.
35
   See the Wellness Lounge on KPV: available at https://www.akwellnesslounge.com/blog/peptide-
spotlight-kpv and the Age Management of West Michigan website on KPV, available at:
https://www.agemanagementmi.com/kpv. Accessed 12/4/25.



                                                                                                        19
and nasal spray formulations. Different websites advertise that KPV (unspecified forms) may be
used to suppress inflammatory conditions, to improve wound healing and skin health, and to
protect against nerve damage and stroke.

     C. Available Evidence of Effectiveness or Lack of Effectiveness of Drug Products
        Compounded With the Substance
The following databases were consulted for the preparation of this section: PubMed, Embase,
ClinicalTrials.gov, DailyMed, Drugs@FDA, relevant professional healthcare organization
websites, and various online clinical references and websites such as information from National
Institutes of Health (NIH) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

The references submitted by the nominator do not clearly identify whether the KPV form was a
salt formulation or the free base, and our search did not identify data, such as clinical studies, on
these substances administered in humans. Therefore, throughout this section, the substances will
be generally referred to as KPV unless otherwise specified as free base or acetate salt.

KPV-related BDSs were nominated for the following uses: “wound healing, inflammatory
conditions (psoriasis, eczema, etc.).” The nomination cited nine literature references 36 in support
of the nomination; none were studies of KPV administered in humans. The nominated uses are
briefly described below.

Wound healing: A wound is a disruption of the normal structure and function of the epidermis
and associated underlying tissues. Wounds are broadly classified as either acute or chronic and
by their clinical presentation. Treatments vary depending on the specific wound type. 37 We note
that the nominator has not provided information about what specific type of wound that KPV is
intended to be used for.

Inflammatory conditions: Inflammatory conditions are diseases that affect various body organ
systems. Inflammation can be either acute or chronic (Pahwa et al. 2025) and treatment may
vary. The nominator listed the proposed use “Inflammatory Conditions (psoriasis, eczema, etc.).”

        1. Reports of Trials, Clinical Evidence, and Anecdotal Reports of Effectiveness, or Lack
           of Effectiveness, of the Bulk Drug Substance
We reviewed information from the nominator-cited references; the nominator did not provide
clinical evidence on the use of KPV in wound healing or inflammatory conditions. We
performed our own search of published medical literature on additional relevant information on


36
   The nominator cited nine references in their nomination; eight references are studies on various alpha-
MSH (alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone is an endogenous neuropeptide a common precursor
protein of all melanocortin peptides, which expresses in the pituitary gland (Singh and Mukhopadhyay
2014) derivatives conducted in animals) and one reference is on KPV delivery skin permeation using
human cadaver skin.
37
   See the UptoDate website on the basic principles of wound healing, available at:
https://www.uptodate.com/contents/basic-principles-of-wound-
healing?search=wound%20healing&source=search_result&selectedTitle=1%7E150&usage_type=default
&display_rank=1. Accessed 8/5/2024.



                                                                                                        20
this substance; however, we did not identify data, such as clinical studies, on the use of KPV in
humans. 38

The nominator has not provided clinical evidence on the use of KPV in wound healing or
inflammatory conditions.

        2. Whether the Product Compounded With This Bulk Drug Substance Is Intended To Be
           Used in a Serious or Life-Threatening Disease
Wounds and certain inflammatory conditions can be serious or life-threatening.

        3. Therapies That Have Been Used for the Condition(s) Under Consideration
There are FDA-approved drug products that treat the same medical condition as those proposed
for the KPV compounded drug product(s). 39 For wound healing, treatments vary depending on
the specific wound type. Inflammatory conditions cover a wide variety of diseases and
conditions for which treatment may vary.

Conclusions: There is a lack of evidence to evaluate the effectiveness of KPV (free base) and
KPV acetate products for the nominated uses of wound healing and inflammatory conditions.
The nomination did not include, and FDA did not find any information on the use of KPV (free
base) or KPV acetate administered in humans. Acute and chronic wounds as well as
inflammatory conditions are associated with morbidity and can be serious or life-threatening. In
addition, there are currently various FDA-approved therapies with established efficacy for the
management of wounds and treatment of various inflammatory diseases including psoriasis and
eczema.

     D. Are There Concerns About the Safety of the Substance for Use in Compounding?

        1. Nonclinical Assessment
The nominator submitted a list of 8 articles describing nonclinical studies of KPV. Five articles
describe pharmacological studies of KPV (Brzoska et al. 2008; Dalmasso et al. 2008; Getting et
al. 2003; Luger and Brzoska 2007; Pawar et al. 2017). Three articles describe pharmacological
studies of N-acetylated KPV (Brzoska et al. 2008; Hiltz and Lipton 1989) and KPV dimer
(Dalmasso et al. 2008), which are out of the scope of this evaluation and are, therefore, not
discussed further.

The following databases were consulted in preparation of this section: Drugs@FDA, Embase,
European Chemicals Agency, FDA’s Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) Notice Inventory,
Google, Google Scholar, NIH’s dietary supplement label database, National Toxicology Program
website, Pharmapendium, PubMed, Society of Toxicology, USP, and Web of Science.



38
   See 80 FR 65765 for information necessary to fully evaluate a substance.
39
   FDA considers the existence of FDA-approved or over-the-counter (OTC) monograph drug products to
treat the same condition as that proposed for the nomination relevant to FDA’s consideration of the
effectiveness criterion, to the extent there may be alternative therapies that have been demonstrated to be
effective for certain conditions. See 84 FR 4696.



                                                                                                         21
The biological activities of α-MSH are mediated primarily by its ability to bind to and activate
the melanocortin (MC) receptor subtypes MC1, MC3, MC4, and MC5, which are G-protein-
coupled receptors. The melanotropic properties of α-MSH (i.e., the ability of α-MSH to promote
the synthesis and deposit of melanin) result primarily from α-MSH-induced activation of MC1
receptor signaling in melanocytes, whereas the anti-inflammatory properties of α-MSH result
primarily from α-MSH-induced activation of signaling via MC3, MC4, and MC5 receptors in
different cells throughout the body (Brzoska et al. 2008). However, as discussed below, several
lines of evidence suggest that MC receptors are unlikely to be the molecular targets underlying
the anti-inflammatory and wound-healing properties of KPV.

In in-vitro studies, KPV was unable to displace radiolabeled α-MSH binding to rat brain tissue,
murine melanoma cells, and MC1R-expressing murine macrophages (Lyson et al. 1994;
Mandrika et al. 2001; Tatro and Entwistle 1994). In addition, in contrast to α-MSH, KPV did not
increase cyclic AMP (adenosine monophosphate) levels in MC1 receptor-expressing murine
macrophages (Mandrika et al. 2001). Finally, in-vitro and in-vivo studies using either a
pharmacological or a genetic approach failed to demonstrate the involvement of MC2, MC3, and
MC4 receptors in the anti-inflammatory responses and wound-healing effects induced by KPV
(Getting et al. 2003).

Researchers have proposed that the following actions may contribute to the anti-inflammatory
properties of KPV: (i) KPV-induced inhibition of nuclear factor-κB activation leading to a
reduction in the expression of proinflammatory cytokines, and (ii) KPV-induced inhibition of the
effects of proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin 1β (Getting et al. 2003; Mandrika et al.
2001). The di/tripeptide transporter PepT1 has also been proposed to mediate the anti-
inflammatory effects of KPV in the human intestinal epithelial cells Caco2-BBE and HT29-
CL.19A and the human T cells Jurkat (Dalmasso et al. 2008).

Considering the anti-inflammatory properties of KPV and its effectiveness in rodent models of
wound healing (Bonfiglio et al. 2006; Getting et al. 2003; Zhao et al. 2022), researchers have
suggested that investigational clinical studies are needed to determine whether KPV could be
used as a therapeutic intervention to promote healing of skin wounds and ulcers (Böhm and
Luger 2019).

       b. Pharmacokinetics/Toxicokinetics
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify
pharmacokinetic or toxicokinetic studies of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate.

According to an in-vitro study conducted in human cadaver skin, KPV does not permeate well
through skin (Pawar et al. 2017). This characteristic could limit the systemic bioavailability of
KPV applied topically to the skin, and, thereby, preclude systemic toxicity. However, it could
also limit the potential usefulness of KPV as a topical therapeutic agent because it could prevent
KPV’s distribution to epidermal layers below the stratum corneum (the outermost skin layer).

Pawar and colleagues reported that strategies known to breach the structural tightness of skin,
including iontophoresis and/or microneedle abrasion, increased the penetration of KPV through
the stratum corneum and into the inner epidermal layers of human cadaver skin in vitro (Pawar et
al. 2017). Studies are needed to determine whether strategies that facilitate the distribution of



                                                                                                 23
topically applied KPV (free base) or KPV acetate through the epidermal layers of skin can also
increase its systemic absorption.

        c. Acute Toxicity 40
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify acute
toxicity studies of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate.

        d. Repeat-Dose Toxicity 41
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify repeat-
dose toxicity studies of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate.

        e. Genotoxicity 42
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify
genotoxicity studies of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate.

        f. Developmental and Reproductive Toxicity 43
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify
nonclinical developmental and reproductive studies of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate.




40
   Acute toxicity refers to adverse effects observed following administration of a single dose of a
substance, or multiple doses given within a short period (approximately 24 hours). For more information
on general approaches for acute toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry M3(R2)
Nonclinical Safety Studies for the Conduct of Human Clinical Trials and Marketing Authorization for
Pharmaceuticals (January 2010), available at: https://www.fda.gov/media/71542/download.
41
   Repeat-dose toxicity studies consist of in-vivo animal studies that seek to evaluate the toxicity of the
test substance when it is repetitively administered daily for an extended period. For more information on
general approaches for repeat-dose toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry M3(R2)
Nonclinical Safety Studies for the Conduct of Human Clinical Trials and Marketing Authorization for
Pharmaceuticals (January 2010), available at: https://www.fda.gov/media/71542/download.
42
   The genotoxicity assessment battery usually consists of a gene mutagenicity assay (for single-dose
trials) and a variety of clastogenicity/genotoxicity assays. To support multiple dose administration in
humans, additional genotoxicity testing assessment is usually conducted to detect chromosomal damage
in mammalian systems. For more information on general approaches for genotoxicity studies, please refer
to FDA’s guidance for industry S2(R1) Genotoxicity Testing and Data Interpretation for Pharmaceuticals
Intended for Human Use (June 2012), available at: https://www.fda.gov/media/71980/download.
43
   Developmental and reproductive toxicity studies are usually designed to assess the potential adverse
effects of a substance within a complete reproductive cycle, from conception to reproductive capacity in
subsequent generations, and to identify the potential effects of a substance on pre-, peri-, and postnatal
development. Developmental toxicity or teratogenicity refers to adverse effects (can include embryo-fetal
mortality, structural abnormalities, functional impairment, or alterations to growth) and can occur in pups
either as a result of the exposure of their parents to the substance, prior to the pups’ birth, or by direct
exposure of the pups to the substance after birth. For more information on general approaches for
reproductive and developmental toxicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry S5(R3)
Detection of Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity for Human Pharmaceuticals (May 2021),
available at: https://www.fda.gov/media/148475/download.



                                                                                                          24
        g. Carcinogenicity 44
At the time of this evaluation, the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify
nonclinical carcinogenicity studies of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate.

Conclusions: At the time of this evaluation, the nominator submitted, and FDA identified
nonclinical pharmacological studies suggesting that KPV-related BDSs can have anti-
inflammatory and wound-healing properties in in-vivo and in-vitro models. It has been suggested
that the ability of KPV to inhibit the effects of inflammatory cytokines and the NF-κB-induced
expression of inflammatory interleukins may contribute to the anti-inflammatory effects.
However, the molecular targets underlying the pharmacological effects of KPV-related BDSs
remain unknown.

Although the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify pharmacokinetic studies of
KPV (free base) or KPV acetate, an in-vitro study reported that KPV (unidentified form) does
not permeate through cadaver human skin. This low skin permeability to KPV could limit the
systemic toxicity of KPV applied topically to the skin. However, it could also limit the potential
effectiveness of KPV as a topical therapeutic agent because it could prevent the penetration of
KPV through the stratum corneum into the lower layers of the epidermis. Strategies that can
breach the tightness of the skin (e.g., iontophoresis and microneedle abrasion) have been shown
to increase the skin permeability to KPV and facilitate its access to epidermal layers below the
stratum corneum in vitro. It remains to be determined whether such strategies may also increase
the systemic absorption of topically administered KPV (free base) or KPV acetate in vivo and,
thereby, facilitate the development of untoward systemic effects. At the time of this evaluation,
the nominator did not submit, and FDA did not identify nonclinical toxicity studies to inform
safety considerations for potential clinical uses of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate applied
topically to the skin.

        2. Human Safety
The following databases were consulted in the preparation of this section: PubMed, Embase,
FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS), Human Foods Program (HFP) 45 Human Foods
Complaint System (HFCS) 46, ClinicalTrials.gov, professional healthcare organization websites,
and various online clinical references and websites. Note that throughout this section, the
substance will be generally referred to as KPV unless otherwise specified as free base or acetate
salt.
The nomination did not include, and FDA did not find information on products containing KPV
(free base) or KPV acetate administered in humans.


44
   Studies that assess cancer risk in animals are used as predictive tools to evaluate the potential for drugs
to cause tumors when used by humans on a chronic basis. Carcinogenicity studies are conducted if the
clinical use is expected to be continuous for a minimum of 6 months of life, or if intermittent clinical use
is expected to total 6 months or more of life. For more information on general approaches for
carcinogenicity studies, please refer to FDA’s guidance for industry S1B Testing for Carcinogenicity of
Pharmaceuticals (July 1997), available at: https://www.fda.gov/media/71935/download.
45
   Formerly the Center for Food Safety and Nutrition (CFSAN).
46
   Formerly the CFSAN Adverse Event Reporting System (CAERS).



                                                                                                             25
        a. Pharmacokinetic Data
FDA did not identify clinical studies in humans assessing pharmacokinetics or
pharmacodynamics of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate via any route of administration.

        b. Reported Adverse Reactions (Case Reports and Anecdotal Cases Assessing Safety)

FAERS
The Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology (OSE) conducted a search of the FAERS database
and medical literature for reports of adverse events (AEs) associated with KPV through
December 3, 2025. The FAERS search did not retrieve any reports and the literature search did
not identify any cases of adverse events. 47,48

HFCS
Human Foods Program collects reports of AEs and product complaint reports submitted to FDA
for food, dietary supplements, and cosmetics in the HFCS. A search of HFCS was conducted for
AEs associated with KPV for the date range of 1/1/2004 to 12/3/2025 and did not retrieve cases
where KPV was administered.

We did not find case reports on the use of KPV in humans.

        c. Clinical Studies Assessing Safety
The nomination did not include, and FDA has not identified, any clinical studies or human
exposure data for KPV via any route of administration. Therefore, potential safety risks
associated with the use of KPV in humans are unknown.

        d. Other Safety Information
Immunogenicity and Aggregation Concerns
FDA has issued guidance regarding immunogenicity assessment for therapeutic protein
products. 49 The guidance describes immunogenicity as the propensity of a therapeutic protein
47
   It is important to note that FAERS data have limitations. Reporting is voluntary. In general, there is no
certainty that reported adverse event was due to the suspect product. FDA does not require that a causal
relationship between a product and event be proven, and the report may not always contain enough detail
to properly evaluate an event. Further, FDA does not receive all adverse event reports that may potentially
occur with a product, especially for compounded products. Considering these limitations, FDA cannot
make definitive conclusions regarding the safety of KPV based on FAERS data alone. For additional
information, see Questions and Answers on the FDA FAERS website, available at:
https://www.fda.gov/drugs/surveillance/questions-and-answers-fdas-adverse-event-reporting-system-
faers. Accessed 4/23/2025.
48
   Compounders under section 503A of the FD&C Act generally do not report adverse events to FDA.
FDA encourages compounders, health care professionals, and consumers to report adverse events and
product quality concerns associated with compounded drugs to FDA’s MedWatch Adverse Event
Reporting program. Unless an adverse event report is submitted to FDA, the Agency may not be aware of
adverse events associated with a product compounded under section 503A.
49
   See FDA’s guidance for industry Immunogenicity Assessment for Therapeutic Protein Products
(August 2014), available at: https://www.fda.gov/media/85017/download.



                                                                                                         26
product to generate immune responses to itself and to related proteins including endogenous
proteins or peptides, or to induce immunologically related adverse clinical events. Although this
guidance addresses therapeutic protein products, the concerns about immunogenicity are also
relevant to peptides (such as KPV (free base) and KPV acetate), which can similarly elicit an
immunogenic response.

The consequences of triggering an immune response may range from antibody responses with no
apparent clinical manifestations to life-threatening and catastrophic reactions. Such outcomes are
often unpredictable in patients administered therapeutic protein or peptide products. One possible
consequence of the development of an immune response is the development of neutralizing
antibody activity that may lead to loss of efficacy or even result in the neutralization of the
activity of the endogenous peptide counterpart.

In addition, compared to small-molecule APIs, peptides are distinct because they may have an
inherent tendency to aggregate. Aggregation refers to the processes through which peptides
associate into larger species consisting of multiple peptide chains. Aggregates can be highly
ordered or amorphous and the formation can be reversible or irreversible (Zapadka et al. 2017).
Peptides with as few as two amino acids have been shown to aggregate (Frederix et al. 2011).
Aggregates can impact the pharmacology of the peptide. In addition, aggregation is a risk factor
in immunogenicity and for decreased pharmacotherapeutic effect of the drug product due to
effects on bioavailability, formation of precipitates, or anti-drug antibody production (Ratanji et
al. 2014).

The nominators did not provide, and FDA did not identify clinical studies or human exposure
data assessing immunogenicity or aggregation of KPV-related BDSs. Based on available
information there is insufficient data to conclude that KPV (free base) or KPV acetate do not
present these risks.

        e. Therapies That Have Been Used for the Condition(s) Under Consideration
There are FDA-approved drug products that treat the same medical conditions as those proposed
for KPV-related BDSs. 50

Conclusions: There is lack of clinical and nonclinical safety information on the use of KPV (free
base) and KPV acetate. FDA is particularly concerned about the lack of any human data on drug
products containing these substances administered via any route of administration, including lack
of information to assess immunogenicity or aggregation of KPV-related bulk drug substances.
Therefore, potential safety risks associated with the use in humans are unknown. There are
currently available FDA-approved therapies for the management of wounds and to treat various
inflammatory diseases.




50
  FDA considers the existence of FDA-approved or OTC monograph drug products to treat the same
condition as that proposed for the nomination relevant to FDA’s consideration of the safety criterion, to
the extent there may be therapies that have been demonstrated to be safe under the conditions of use set
forth in the approved labeling. See 84 FR 4696.



                                                                                                            27
III. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION
We have balanced the criteria described in section II above to evaluate KPV (free base) and KPV
acetate for the 503A Bulks List. After considering the information currently available, a
balancing of the criteria weighs against KPV (free base) or KPV acetate being placed on that list
based on the following:

1. Conclusions on the physical and chemical characterization for each KPV-related BDS, KPV
   (free base) and KPV acetate, are included in subsections 1.1 and 1.2.

   1.1.
   KPV (free base) is reported to be a small peptide consisting of 3 amino acids, including
   lysine (K), proline (P), and valine (V). As reported in the literature, KPV (free base) is
   expected to be stable for up to 3 years when stored at -20°C.

   KPV (free base) is deemed to be not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
   characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
   established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) BDS
   specific quality control attributes, including impurities, aggregates, and microbiological tests,
   were not found in the publicly available scientific literature and lack of CoA in the
   nomination package which are offered as evidence to establishing identity, purity, and
   impurity profiles of the substance.

   In addition, due to lack of information on the formulation of proposed cream/gel final
   products, we cannot evaluate how the physical and chemical characteristics, especially
   limited water solubility (0.7 mg/mL) and particle size, impact the performance of final
   products.

   1.2.
   KPV acetate is reported to be an acetate salt of KPV peptide consisting of 3 amino acids. As
   reported in the literature, KPV acetate is expected to be stable under reported storage
   conditions (at 2°C to 8°C).

   KPV acetate is deemed to be not well-characterized from the physical and chemical
   characterization perspective because (1) inconsistent naming conventions that do not follow
   established chemical nomenclature standards (e.g., INN, IUPAC, USAN), and (2) BDS
   specific quality control attributes, including impurities, aggregates, and microbiological tests,
   were not found in the publicly available scientific literature and lack of CoA in the
   nomination package which are offered as evidence to establishing identity, purity, and
   impurity profiles of the substance.

   In addition, due to lack of information on the formulation of proposed cream/gel final
   products, we cannot evaluate how the physical and chemical characteristics, such as particle
   size, impact the performance of final products.




                                                                                                  28
2. Available literature indicates that the extent of KPV (free base) or KPV acetate use in
   compounding is unknown. Published literature did not reveal studies in which compounded
   drug products containing KPV (free base) or KPV acetate were used in humans. OFs have
   not reported preparing single or multiple-API products containing KPV (free base) or KPV
   acetate. Internet search results indicate that websites promote KPV as single-API or multiple-
   API compounded drug products in oral, injectable, topical, and nasal spray formulations.
   KPV is promoted to treat inflammatory conditions, improve wound healing and skin health,
   and protect against nerve damage and stroke.

3. There is a lack of evidence to evaluate the effectiveness of KPV (free base) and KPV acetate
   products for the nominated uses of wound healing and inflammatory conditions. The
   nomination did not include, and FDA did not find any information on the use of these
   substances administered in humans. Acute and chronic wounds as well as inflammatory
   conditions are associated with morbidity and can be serious or life-threatening. In addition,
   there are currently various FDA-approved therapies with established efficacy for the
   management of wounds and treatment of various inflammatory diseases including psoriasis
   and eczema.

4. There is a lack of clinical and nonclinical safety information on the use of KPV (free base)
   and KPV acetate. FDA is particularly concerned about the lack of any human data on drug
   products containing these substances administered via any route of administration, including
   lack of information to assess immunogenicity or aggregation of KPV-related substances.
   Therefore, potential safety risks associated with the use in humans are unknown. There are
   currently available FDA-approved therapies for the management of wounds and to treat
   various inflammatory diseases.

On balance, the physicochemical characterization, information on historical use, lack of any
effectiveness and safety information in humans for both KPV (free base) and KPV acetate weigh
against their being added to the 503A Bulks List. In particular, FDA’s proposal is based on the
fact that these substances are not well-characterized from a physical and chemical
characterization perspective, the extent of use in compounding is unknown, and there is non-
existing information on the use of these substances administered in humans to make a conclusion
on their clinical safety and effectiveness. There are currently FDA-approved therapies for the
management of wounds and for the treatment of various inflammatory diseases. Accordingly, we
propose not adding KPV (free base) or KPV acetate to the 503A Bulks List.




                                                                                               29
IV. REFERENCES
Böhm, M and T Luger, 2019, Are Melanocortin Peptides Future Therapeutics for Cutaneous
Wound Healing? Exp Dermatol, 28(3):219-224.

Bonfiglio, V, G Camillieri, T Avitabile, GM Leggio and F Drago, 2006, Effects of the COOH-
Terminal Tripeptide Alpha-MSH(11-13) on Corneal Epithelial Wound Healing: Role of Nitric
Oxide, Exp Eye Res, 83(6):1366-1372.

Brzoska, T, TA Luger, C Maaser, C Abels and M Böhm, 2008, Α Melanocyte-Stimulating
Hormone and Related Tripeptides: Biochemistry, Antiinflammatory and Protective Effects in
Vitro and in Vivo, and Future Perspectives for the Treatment of Immune-Mediated Inflammatory
Diseases, Endocr Rev, 29(5):581-602.

Dalmasso, G, L Charrier-Hisamuddin, HT Nguyen, Y Yan, S Sitaraman and D Merlin, 2008,
Pept1-Mediated Tripeptide KPV Uptake Reduces Intestinal Inflammation, Gastroenterology,
134(1):166-178.

Frederix, PW, RV Ulijn, NT Hunt and T Tuttle, 2011, Virtual Screening for Dipeptide
Aggregation: Toward Predictive Tools for Peptide Self-Assembly, J Phys Chem Lett,
2(19):2380-2384.

Getting, SJ, HB Schiöth and M Perretti, 2003, Dissection of the Anti-Inflammatory Effect of the
Core and C-Terminal (KPV) α-Melanocyte-Stimulating Hormone Peptides, J Pharmacol Exp
Ther, 306(2):631-637.

Hiltz, ME and JM Lipton, 1989, Antiinflammatory Activity of a COOH-Terminal Fragment of
the Neuropeptide Alpha-MSH, Faseb J, 3(11):2282-2284.

Luger, TA and T Brzoska, 2007, Alpha-MSH Related Peptides: A New Class of Anti-
Inflammatory and Immunomodulating Drugs, Ann Rheum Dis, 66 Suppl 3(Suppl 3):iii52-55.

Lyson, K, G Ceriani, A Takashima, A Catania and JM Lipton, 1994, Binding of Anti-
Inflammatory Alpha-Melanocyte-Stimulating-Hormone Peptides and Proinflammatory
Cytokines to Receptors on Melanoma Cells, Neuroimmunomodulation, 1(2):121-126.

Mandrika, I, R Muceniece and JE Wikberg, 2001, Effects of Melanocortin Peptides on
Lipopolysaccharide/Interferon-Gamma-Induced NF-Kappab DNA Binding and Nitric Oxide
Production in Macrophage-Like Raw 264.7 Cells: Evidence for Dual Mechanisms of Action,
Biochem Pharmacol, 61(5):613-621.

Pahwa, R, A Goyal and I Jialal, 2025, Chronic Inflammation, Statpearls.

Pawar, K, CS Kolli, VK Rangari and RJ Babu, 2017, Transdermal Iontophoretic Delivery of
Lysine-Proline-Valine (KPV) Peptide across Microporated Human Skin, J Pharm Sci,
106(7):1814-1820.




                                                                                              30
Ratanji, KD, JP Derrick, RJ Dearman and I Kimber, 2014, Immunogenicity of Therapeutic
Proteins: Influence of Aggregation, J Immunotoxicol, 11(2):99-109.

Singh, M and K Mukhopadhyay, 2014, Alpha-Melanocyte Stimulating Hormone: An Emerging
Anti-Inflammatory Antimicrobial Peptide, Biomed Res Int, 2014:874610.

Tatro, JB and ML Entwistle, 1994, Heterogeneity of Brain Melanocortin Receptors Suggested by
Differential Ligand Binding in Situ, Brain Res, 635(1-2):148-158.

Zapadka KL, FJ Becher, AL Gomes Dos Santos and SE Jackson, 2017, Factors affecting the
physical stability (aggregation) of peptide therapeutics, Interface Focus, 7(6).

Zhao, Y, L Huang, G Lin, M Tong, Y Xie, H Pan, J Shangguan, Q Yao, S Xu and H Xu, 2022,
Skin-Adaptive Film Dressing with Smart-Release of Growth Factors Accelerated Diabetic
Wound Healing, Int J Biol Macromol, 222(Pt B):2729-2743.




                                                                                          31
V. APPENDIX
APPENDIX 1: GENTLE GIANT CARE LLC, KPV (ACCESSED 2/10/24)




                                                            32
    KPV–Related
 Bulk Drug Substances
 (KPV (Free Base) and
KPV acetate) Nomination




                          33
                                                    •   CHEBI:160254

                                                    •   ZINC2012357

                                                    •   (2S)-2-[[(2S)-1-[(2S)-2,6-
                                                        diaminohexanoyl]pyrrolidine-2-
                                                        carbonyl]amino]-3-methylbutanoic acid

                                                    •   N-[Hydroxy(1-lysylpyrrolidin-2-
                                                        yl)methylidene]valine

                                                                   Molecular Formula:
                                                                       C16H30N4O4

                                                                 Amino Acid Sequence:
                                                                     Lys-Pro-Val

                                                                          CAS:
                                                                       67727-97-3

What is the common name of the substance?                                  KPV


Does the substance have a UNII code?
                                                                            NO

What is the chemical grade of the substance?            Provided by FDA Registered Supplier/COA

                                                     Assay, Description, Solubility, etc.; Example of
What is the strength, quality, stability, and
purity of the ingredient?                          Certificate of Analysis for this chemical is attached.

How is the ingredient supplied?                                    Lyophilized Powder
Is the substance recognized in foreign
pharmacopeias or registered in other                                        No
countries?
Has information been submitted about the
substance to the USP for consideration of drug                              No
monograph development?
What dosage form(s) will be compounded using
                                                                        Cream/Gel
the bulk drug substance?
What strength(s) will be compounded from the
                                                                           0.1%
nominated substance?
What is the anticipated route(s) of
administration of the compounded drug                                     Topical
product(s)?
                                                 Hiltz ME, Lipton JM. Antiinflammatory activity of a
                                                 COOH-terminal fragment of the neuropeptide
                                                 alpha-MSH. FASEB J. 1989 Sep;3(11):2282-4. PMID:
Are there safety and efficacy data on            2550304.
compounded drugs using the nominated
substance?                                       Brzoska T, Luger TA, Maaser C, Abels C, Böhm M.
                                                 Alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone and
                                                 related tripeptides: biochemistry, antiinflammatory
                                                 and protective effects in vitro and in vivo, and
                                                                                                            35
                                          future perspectives for the treatment of immune-
                                          mediated inflammatory diseases. Endocr Rev. 2008
                                          Aug;29(5):581-602. doi: 10.1210/er.2007-0027.
                                          Epub 2008 Jul 8. PMID: 18612139.


                                          Luger TA, Brzoska T. alpha-MSH related peptides: a
                                          new class of anti-inflammatory and
                                          immunomodulating drugs. Ann Rheum Dis. 2007
                                          Nov;66 Suppl 3(Suppl 3):iii52-5. doi:
                                          10.1136/ard.2007.079780. PMID: 17934097; PMCID:
                                          PMC2095288.


                                          de Souza KS, Cantaruti TA, Azevedo GM Jr, Galdino
                                          DA, Rodrigues CM, Costa RA, Vaz NM, Carvalho CR.
                                          Improved cutaneous wound healing after
                                          intraperitoneal injection of alpha-melanocyte-
                                          stimulating hormone. Exp Dermatol. 2015
                                          Mar;24(3):198-203. doi: 10.1111/exd.12609. Epub
                                          2015 Jan 12. PMID: 25431356.


                                          Brzoska T, Böhm M, Lügering A, Loser K, Luger TA.
                                          Terminal signal: anti-inflammatory effects of α-
                                          melanocyte-stimulating hormone related peptides
                                          beyond the pharmacophore. Adv Exp Med Biol.
                                          2010;681:107-16. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6354-
                                          3 8. PMID: 21222263.


                                          Getting SJ, Schiöth HB, Perretti M. Dissection of the
                                          anti-inflammatory effect of the core and C-terminal
                                          (KPV) alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone
                                          peptides. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2003
                                          Aug;306(2):631-7. doi: 10.1124/jpet.103.051623.
                                          Epub 2003 May 15. PMID: 12750433.

                                          Pawar K, Kolli CS, Rangari VK, Babu RJ. Transdermal
                                          Iontophoretic Delivery of Lysine-Proline-Valine
                                          (KPV) Peptide Across Microporated Human Skin. J
                                          Pharm Sci. 2017 Jul;106(7):1814-1820. doi:
                                          10.1016/j.xphs.2017.03.017. Epub 2017 Mar 24.
                                          PMID: 28343991.

Has the bulk drug substance been used
                                                                   YES
previously to compound drug product(s)?
What is the proposed use for the drug       Wound healing, Inflammatory conditions (psoriasis,
product(s) to be compounded with the                           eczema, etc)
nominated substance?



                                                                                                  36
What is the reason for use of a compounded
drug product rather than an FDA-approved     no FDA-approved product available
product?
Is there any other relevant information?         Added as an Attachment




                                                                                 37
                   References included with nomination FDA-2015-N-3534-0294
Capsoni F, Ongari A, Colombo G, Turcatti F, Catania A. The synthetic melanocortin (CKPV)2 exerts
broad anti-inflammatory effects in human neutrophils. Peptides. 2007 Oct;28(10):2016-22. doi:
10.1016/j.peptides.2007.08.001. Epub 2007 Aug 7. PMID: 17850921.
Dalmasso G, Charrier-Hisamuddin L, Nguyen HT, Yan Y, Sitaraman S, Merlin D. PepT1-mediated
tripeptide KPV uptake reduces intestinal inflammation. Gastroenterology. 2008 Jan;134(1):166-78. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2007.10.026. Epub 2007 Oct 17. PMID: 18061177; PMCID: PMC2431115.




                                                                                                        38
