                      UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                   MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD

TANETTA N. ISLER,                              DOCKET NUMBER
              Appellant,                       DC-3443-25-2251-I-1

             v.

CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY                        DATE: September 28, 2026
  COMMISSION,
             Agency.



        THIS FINAL ORDER IS NONPRECEDENTIAL 1

      Tanetta N. Isler , Silver Spring, Maryland, pro se.

      Russell C. Bruch , Matt Campbell , and Abioye Mosheim Oyewole ,
        Bethesda, Maryland, for the agency.

                                      BEFORE

                          James J. Woodruff II, Chairman
                          Henry J. Kerner, Vice Chairman


                                  FINAL ORDER

      The appellant has filed a petition for review of the initial decision, which
dismissed her appeal alleging that she was subjected to a constructive removal
and reduction in force (RIF) for lack of jurisdiction.          Generally, we grant
petitions such as this one only in the following circumstances: the initial decision


1
   A nonprecedential order is one that the Board has determined does not add
significantly to the body of MSPB case law. Parties may cite nonprecedential orders,
but such orders have no precedential value; the Board and administrative judges are not
required to follow or distinguish them in any future decisions. In contrast, a
precedential decision issued as an Opinion and Order has been identified by the Board
as significantly contributing to the Board’s case law. See 5 C.F.R. § 1201.117(c).
                                                                                     2

contains erroneous findings of material fact; the initial decision is based on an
erroneous interpretation of statute or regulation or the erroneous application of
the law to the facts of the case; the administrative judge’s rulings during either
the course of the appeal or the initial decision were not consistent with required
procedures or involved an abuse of discretion, and the resulting error affected the
outcome of the case; or new and material evidence or legal argument is available
that, despite the petitioner’s due diligence, was not available when the record
closed. Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations, section 1201.115 (5 C.F.R.
§ 1201.115). After fully considering the filings in this appeal, we conclude that
the petitioner has not established any basis under section 1201.115 for granting
the petition for review.     Therefore, we DENY the petition for review and
AFFIRM the initial decision, which is now the Board’s final decision. 5 C.F.R.
§ 1201.113(b).
      On review, the appellant continues to assert, as she did before the
administrative judge, that her retirement was involuntary due to coercion and
misinformation and that the agency subjected her to a RIF. Petition for Review
(PFR) File, Tab 1 at 7-11. We first address the appellant’s RIF arguments. At
the time of the agency’s alleged action, an employee who had been furloughed for
more than 30 days, separated, or demoted by a RIF could appeal to the Board.
5 C.F.R. § 351.901 (2025). 2     However, the appellant has not nonfrivolously
alleged that she was furloughed for more than 30 days, separated, or demoted.
Although she points to the agency’s February 26, 2025 letter notifying her that
her position was identified to be abolished, that letter did not separate the
appellant from service or take any other personnel action. Initial Appeal File

2
  Effective September 2, 2026, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) amended its
RIF regulation at 5 C.F.R § 351.901 by replacing the Board with OPM as the
adjudicative agency for such appeals. Reduction in Force Appeals, 91 Fed. Reg. 49230,
49230, 49248 (Aug. 3, 2026). OPM’s final rule expressly states, however, that “[a] RIF
action for which the agency issued that notice before the effective date of [the final
rule] remains subject to adjudication by the [Board] under the procedures applicable to
that action.” Id. at 49233.
                                                                                  3

(IAF), Tab 1 at 18-19.     Rather, it explained that the agency would give the
appellant advance notice if it took a personnel action in the future. Id. We have
considered that the appellant was placed on paid administrative leave prior to her
retirement. IAF, Tab 5 at 44. However, she has not nonfrivolously alleged that
she was subjected to a furlough, defined in 5 C.F.R. § 351.203 as temporary
nonduty and nonpay status.      Accordingly, we agree with the administrative
judge’s conclusion that the appellant did not nonfrivolously allege that she was
subjected to an appealable RIF. IAF, Tab 6, Initial Decision (ID) at 6-7.
      We also agree with the administrative judge’s conclusion that the appellant
did not make a nonfrivolous allegation that her retirement was involuntary. ID
at 7-10. To establish jurisdiction over a constructive adverse action, an appellant
must nonfrivolously allege that (1) she lacked a meaningful choice, and (2) this
was because of the agency’s improper actions.       Bean v. U.S. Postal Service,
120 M.S.P.R. 397, ¶ 11 (2013). The administrative judge implicitly found that
the appellant did not make nonfrivolous allegations to satisfy either element. ID
at 7-10. We agree.
      On review, the appellant asserts that “preemptive retirement in the face of
impending job abolishment and lack of clear notice can amount to an involuntary
separation,” citing Murray v. Department of Defense, 92 M.S.P.R. 361 (2002).
PFR File, Tab 1 at 4, 6-7.       Murray, however, does not stand for such a
proposition.   In Murray, 92 M.S.P.R. 361, ¶¶ 19-20, the Board held that an
appellant’s retirement upon receipt of a final notice of separation by RIF did not
deprive it of jurisdiction to adjudicate the appellant’s RIF appeal, i.e., whether
the agency provided the appellant with his rights under the relevant RIF
procedures. The case did not address constructive adverse actions. We have also
considered the appellant’s assertion on review that the agency’s failure to issue a
final RIF notice in this case created a misleading environment similar to that in
Covington v. Department of Health and Human Services , 750 F.2d 937, 939,
942-44 (Fed. Cir. 1984). However, in Covington, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
                                                                                      4

the Federal Circuit found that, in a final RIF notice, the agency provided false
information regarding his right to reassignment. The appellant has not made a
nonfrivolous allegation that the agency provided her with misinformation.
Finally, to the extent the appellant continues to assert on review that the agency’s
failure to create a RIF plan was wrongful, we agree with the administrative judge
that a RIF plan was not required because, at the time of the appellant’s
retirement, she had not been subjected to an appealable RIF. ID at 7; 5 C.F.R.
§ 351.901 (2025).
      In sum, we agree with the administrative judge, for the reasons set forth in
the initial decision and discussed above, that the appellant has not nonfrivolously
alleged that she had no choice but to resign or that it was the agency’s wrongful
actions that deprived her of that choice. ID at 7-10; Bean, 120 M.S.P.R. 397,
¶ 11. Based on the foregoing, we deny the appellant’s petition for review and
affirm the initial decision.

                         NOTICE OF APPEAL RIGHTS 3
      You may obtain review of this final decision. 5 U.S.C. § 7703(a)(1). By
statute, the nature of your claims determines the time limit for seeking such
review and the appropriate forum with which to file.            5 U.S.C. § 7703(b).
Although we offer the following summary of available appeal rights, the Merit
Systems Protection Board does not provide legal advice on which option is most
appropriate for your situation and the rights described below do not represent a
statement of how courts will rule regarding which cases fall within their
jurisdiction.   If you wish to seek review of this final decision, you should
immediately review the law applicable to your claims and carefully follow all
filing time limits and requirements. Failure to file within the applicable time
limit may result in the dismissal of your case by your chosen forum.

3
  Since the issuance of the initial decision in this matter, the Board may have updated
the notice of review rights included in final decisions. As indicated in the notice, the
Board cannot advise which option is most appropriate in any matter.
                                                                                    5

      Please read carefully each of the three main possible choices of review
below to decide which one applies to your particular case. If you have questions
about whether a particular forum is the appropriate one to review your case, you
should contact that forum for more information.

      (1) Judicial review in general . As a general rule, an appellant seeking
judicial review of a final Board order must file a petition for review with the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which must be received by the court
within 60 calendar days of the date of issuance of this decision.           5 U.S.C.
§ 7703(b)(1)(A).
      If you submit a petition for review to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit, you must submit your petition to the court at the following
address:
                              U.S. Court of Appeals
                              for the Federal Circuit
                             717 Madison Place, N.W.
                             Washington, D.C. 20439

      Additional information about the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit is available at the court’s website, www.cafc.uscourts.gov. Of particular
relevance is the court’s “Guide for Pro Se Petitioners and Appellants,” which is
contained within the court’s Rules of Practice, and Forms 5, 6, 10, and 11.
      If you are interested in securing pro bono representation for an appeal to
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, you may visit our website at
http://www.mspb.gov/probono for information regarding pro bono representation
for Merit Systems Protection Board appellants before the Federal Circuit. The
Board neither endorses the services provided by any attorney nor warrants that
any attorney will accept representation in a given case.

      (2) Judicial   or   EEOC     review    of   cases    involving   a   claim   of
discrimination . This option applies to you only if you have claimed that you
                                                                                  6

were affected by an action that is appealable to the Board and that such action
was based, in whole or in part, on unlawful discrimination. If so, you may obtain
judicial review of this decision—including a disposition of your discrimination
claims —by filing a civil action with an appropriate U.S. district court ( not the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit), within 30 calendar days after you
receive this decision.   5 U.S.C. § 7703(b)(2); see Perry v. Merit Systems
Protection Board, 582 U.S. 420 (2017). If you have a representative in this case,
and your representative receives this decision before you do, then you must file
with the district court no later than 30 calendar days after your representative
receives this decision. If the action involves a claim of discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or a disabling condition, you may be
entitled to representation by a court-appointed lawyer and to waiver of any
requirement of prepayment of fees, costs, or other security.        See 42 U.S.C.
§ 2000e-5(f) and 29 U.S.C. § 794a.
      Contact information for U.S. district courts can be found at their respective
websites, which can be accessed through the link below:
      http://www.uscourts.gov/Court_Locator/CourtWebsites.aspx .
      Alternatively, you may request review by the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) of your discrimination claims only, excluding
all other issues . 5 U.S.C. § 7702(b)(1). You must file any such request with the
EEOC’s Office of Federal Operations within 30 calendar days after you receive
this decision. 5 U.S.C. § 7702(b)(1). If you have a representative in this case,
and your representative receives this decision before you do, then you must file
with the EEOC no later than 30 calendar days after your representative receives
this decision.
                                                                                      7

      If you submit a request for review to the EEOC by regular U.S. mail, the
address of the EEOC is:
                            Office of Federal Operations
                     Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
                                  P.O. Box 77960
                             Washington, D.C. 20013

      If you submit a request for review to the EEOC via commercial delivery or
by a method requiring a signature, it must be addressed to:
                            Office of Federal Operations
                     Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
                                 131 M Street, N.E.
                                   Suite 5SW12G
                             Washington, D.C. 20507

      (3) Judicial    review    pursuant     to   the    Whistleblower      Protection
Enhancement Act of 2012 . This option applies to you only if you have raised
claims of reprisal for whistleblowing disclosures under 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(8) or
other protected activities listed in 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(9)(A)(i), (B), (C), or (D).
If so, and your judicial petition for review “raises no challenge to the Board’s
disposition of allegations of a prohibited personnel practice described in
section 2302(b) other than practices described in section 2302(b)(8), or
2302(b)(9)(A)(i), (B), (C), or (D),” then you may file a petition for judicial
review either with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit or any court
of appeals of competent jurisdiction. 4 The court of appeals must receive your
petition for review within 60 days of the date of issuance of this decision.
5 U.S.C. § 7703(b)(1)(B).

4
   The original statutory provision that provided for judicial review of certain
whistleblower claims by any court of appeals of competent jurisdiction expired on
December 27, 2017. The All Circuit Review Act, signed into law by the President on
July 7, 2018, permanently allows appellants to file petitions for judicial review of
MSPB decisions in certain whistleblower reprisal cases with the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit or any other circuit court of appeals of competent jurisdiction.
The All Circuit Review Act is retroactive to November 26, 2017. Pub. L. No. 115-195,
132 Stat. 1510.
                                                                                  8

      If you submit a petition for judicial review to the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit, you must submit your petition to the court at the following
address:
                              U.S. Court of Appeals
                              for the Federal Circuit
                             717 Madison Place, N.W.
                             Washington, D.C. 20439

      Additional information about the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit is available at the court’s website, www.cafc.uscourts.gov. Of particular
relevance is the court’s “Guide for Pro Se Petitioners and Appellants,” which is
contained within the court’s Rules of Practice, and Forms 5, 6, 10, and 11.
      If you are interested in securing pro bono representation for an appeal to
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, you may visit our website at
http://www.mspb.gov/probono for information regarding pro bono representation
for Merit Systems Protection Board appellants before the Federal Circuit. The
Board neither endorses the services provided by any attorney nor warrants that
any attorney will accept representation in a given case.
      Contact information for the courts of appeals can be found at their
respective websites, which can be accessed through the link below:
      http://www.uscourts.gov/Court_Locator/CourtWebsites.aspx .




FOR THE BOARD:                        ______________________________
                                      Gina K. Grippando
                                      Clerk of the Board
Washington, D.C.
