U.S. Department                                                        1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E.
of Transportation                                                       Washington, D.C. 20590
Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety
Administration
                                         May 22, 2026

VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL TO: saul.flota@exxonmobil.com

Saul Flota
Vice President & North America Operations Manager
ExxonMobil Pipeline Company LLC
22777 Springwoods Village Parkway
Spring, Texas, 77389

CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV-1

Dear Mr. Flota:

Enclosed please find a Consent Order incorporating the terms of the Consent Agreement between
the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) and Denbury Gulf Coast
Pipelines LLC which was executed on May 8, 2026. Service of the Consent Order and Consent
Agreement by electronic mail is deemed effective upon the date of transmission and
acknowledgement of receipt, or as otherwise provided under 49 CFR § 190.5.

Thank you for your cooperation in this matter.

                                            Sincerely,


                                            Linda Daugherty
                                            Acting Associate Administrator
                                             for Pipeline Safety

Enclosure: Consent Order and Consent Agreement

cc:    Rod Seeley, Acting Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Pipeline Safety, PHMSA
       Rodney Barnwell, ExxonMobil, rodney.b.barnwell@exxonmobil.com
       Angela Offerman, ExxonMobil, angela.offerman@exxonmobil.com
       Rebekah Bennett, ExxonMobil, rebekah.r.beneett@exxonmobil.com
       Haley O’Neill, counsel for Denbury Gulf Coast Pipelines LLC,
        haley.oneill@pipelinelegal.com
     Jerry Cox, Counsel for Republic Testing Laboratories, L.L.C.,
       jcox@potomacstrategyassociates.com

CONFIRMATION OF RECEIPT REQUESTED
                    U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
       PIPELINE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
                           OFFICE OF PIPELINE SAFETY
                              WASHINGTON, D.C. 20590
____________________________________
                                     )
In the Matter of                     )
                                     )
Denbury Gulf Coast Pipelines LLC,    )    CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV-1
and                                  )
Republic Testing Laboratories, LLC   )
                                     )
                                     )
Respondents.                         )
____________________________________)


                                      CONSENT ORDER

By letter dated January 17, 2025, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
(PHMSA), Office of Pipeline Safety (OPS), issued a Notice of Probable Violation and Proposed
Civil Penalty (Notice) to Denbury Gulf Coast Pipelines LLC (Denbury) and Republic Testing
Laboratories, LLC (Republic).

In response to the Notice, Denbury contested the alleged violation and the accompanying proposed
civil penalty and requested a hearing. (Republic responded separately.) Denbury and PHMSA
subsequently engaged in good-faith settlement discussions in order to settle the allegations in the
Notice as applied to Denbury. As a result of those discussions, Denbury and PHMSA have agreed
to a Consent Agreement by which PHMSA withdraws the allegation of violation in the Notice as
applied to Denbury, and Denbury will complete certain compliance actions.

Accordingly, the Consent Agreement is hereby approved and incorporated by reference into this
Consent Order issued pursuant to 49 CFR § 190.219. Denbury is hereby ordered to comply with
the terms of the Consent Agreement pursuant to its terms. Pursuant to 49 U.S.C. § 60101, et seq.,
failure to comply with this Consent Order may result in the assessment of civil penalties as set
forth in 49 U.S.C. § 60122 and 49 CFR § 190.223, or in referral to the Attorney General for
appropriate relief in a district court of the United States.

For recordkeeping purposes and future correspondence, this Consent Agreement and Consent
Order will be referred to as CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV-1.

Neither the Consent Agreement nor this Consent Order withdraw, satisfy, merge, extinguish, or
otherwise affect the alleged violation and proposed civil penalty asserted against Republic in the
same Notice. Denbury’s performance of its obligations under the Consent Agreement satisfy its
individual obligations, but such performance does not release Republic from its potential liability
for the same underlying facts or alleged violations. The enforcement proceeding against Republic
remains active and is unaffected by this Order.
The terms and conditions of this Consent Order are effective upon service in accordance with
49 CFR § 190.5.


_____________________ __________________________
Linda Daugherty                                  Date Issued
Acting Associate Administrator
 for Pipeline Safety
                        U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
             PIPELINE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
                              OFFICE OF PIPELINE SAFETY
                                WASHINGTON, D.C. 20590


                                                          §
In the Matter of:                                         §
                                                          §
Denbury Gulf Coast Pipelines, LLC,                        §       CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV
                                                          §
Respondent                                                §
                                                          §
                                                          §


                                       CONSENT AGREEMENT

On September 6, 7, 8, and 11, 2023, pursuant to Chapter 601 of Title 49, United States Code,
representatives of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), Office
of Pipeline Safety (OPS) performed an inspection of activities related to Denbury Gulf Coast
Pipelines, LLC’s (Denbury) horizontal directional drilling pipeline installation. As part of the
project, Denbury hired Republic Testing Laboratories, LLC (Republic) as a welding contractor.
The inspection included visual observation of welding procedure qualifications and welder
qualifications at Republic’s facility in La Porte, Texas.

On November 2, 2023, Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) acquired Denbury in an all-
stock transaction.

By letter dated January 17, 2025, the Director, Southwest Region, OPS (Director), issued to
Denbury and Republic a Notice of Probable Violation and Proposed Civil Penalty (Notice). In
accordance with 49 CFR § 190.207, the Notice alleged both Denbury and Republic violated 49
U.S.C. § 60118(e)(2)(B)(i) and 49 C.F.R. § 190.203(e) and proposed a civil penalty of
$2,366,900.

On June 4, 2025, Denbury responded to the Notice by submitting a Request for Hearing and
Statement of Issues disputing and objecting to the allegations.

PHMSA and Denbury subsequently met to discuss the issues raised in the Notice. As a result of
those discussions and as explained in more detail below, PHMSA and Denbury agree that
settlement of this proceeding by entry into this Consent Agreement (Agreement) is the most
appropriate means of resolving the issues raised in the Notice, will avoid further administrative
proceedings or litigation, and is in the public interest. Therefore, pursuant to 49 CFR §
190.219(a), without adjudication of any issue of law or fact, and upon consent and agreement,
PHMSA and Denbury agree to the following terms and conditions:
                                                                        CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV
                                                                                       Page 2 of 7

I.      General Provisions

         1.      Denbury acknowledges that as the operator of certain pipeline facilities, Denbury
     is subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal pipeline safety laws, 49 U.S.C. § 60101, et seq.,
     and the regulations and administrative orders issued thereunder. For purposes of this
     Agreement, Denbury acknowledges that it received proper notice of PHMSA’s action in this
     proceeding.

        2.      Denbury agrees to complete the actions specified in Section II of this Agreement
     (Corrective Measures), and for any items indicated as having already been completed,
     Denbury affirms that it has completed those actions and will provide documentation to
     PHMSA confirming completion.

         3.      After Denbury returns this signed Agreement to PHMSA, PHMSA’s
     representative will present it to the Associate Administrator for Pipeline Safety,
     recommending that the Associate Administrator adopt the terms of this Agreement by issuing
     a Consent Order incorporating the terms of this Agreement. The terms of this Agreement
     constitute an offer of settlement until accepted by the Associate Administrator. Once
     accepted, the Associate Administrator will issue a Consent Order incorporating the terms of
     this Agreement.

         4.      Denbury consents to the issuance of the Consent Order, and hereby waives any
     further procedural requirements with respect to its issuance. Denbury waives all rights to
     contest the adequacy of notice, or the validity of the Consent Order or this Agreement,
     including all rights to administrative or judicial hearings or appeals, except for the dispute
     resolution provisions set forth herein. Denbury agrees to withdraw its request for an
     administrative hearing regarding the Notice.

         5.       This Agreement shall apply to and be binding upon PHMSA and Denbury, its
     officers, directors, and employees, and its successors, assigns, and other entities or persons
     otherwise bound by law. Denbury agrees to provide a copy of this Agreement to all of
     Denbury’s officers, employees, and agents whose duties might reasonably include
     compliance with this Agreement.

         6.     This Agreement constitutes the final, complete, and exclusive agreement and
     understanding between PHSMA and Denbury with respect to the settlement embodied in this
     Agreement. PHSMA and Denbury acknowledge that there are no representations,
     agreements, or understandings relating to settlement other than those expressly contained in
     this Agreement, except that the terms of this Agreement may be construed by reference to the
     Notice.

         7.      Nothing in this Agreement affects or relieves Denbury of its responsibility to
     comply with all applicable requirements of the Federal pipeline safety laws, 49 U.S.C. §
     60101, et seq., and the regulations and orders issued thereunder. Nothing in this Agreement
     alters PHMSA's right of access, entry, inspection, and information gathering or PHMSA's
     authority to bring enforcement actions against Denbury pursuant to the Federal pipeline
                                                                         CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV
                                                                                        Page 3 of 7

      safety laws, the regulations and orders issued thereunder, or any other provision of Federal or
      State law except for any enforcement action(s) related to the inspection that took place at
      Republic’s facility that was the subject of the Notice.

          8.      For all transfers of ownership or operating responsibility of Denbury’s pipeline
      system referenced in the Notice, Denbury will provide a copy of this Agreement to the
      prospective transferee at least 30 days prior to such transfer. Denbury will provide written
      notice of the transfer to the Director no later than 60 days after the transfer occurs.

         9.      This Agreement does not waive or modify any Federal, State, or local laws or
      regulations that are applicable to Denbury’s pipeline systems. This Agreement is not a
      permit, or modification of any permit, under any Federal, State, or local laws or regulations.
      Denbury remains responsible for achieving and maintaining compliance with all applicable
      Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and permits.

          10.      This Agreement does not create rights in, or grant any cause of action to, any third
      party not party to this Agreement. The U.S. Department of Transportation is not liable for
      any injuries or damages to persons or property arising from acts or omissions of Respondent
      or its officers, employees, or agents carrying out the work required by this Agreement. The
      U.S. Department of Transportation, its officers, employees, agents, and representatives shall
      not be liable for any cause of action arising from any acts or omissions of Denbury or its
      contractors in carrying out any work required by this Agreement.

          11.     This Agreement does not constitute a finding of violation of any Federal law or
      regulation and may not be used in any civil or administrative proceeding of any kind as
      evidence or proof of any fact, fault, or liability, or as evidence of the violation of any law,
      rule, regulation, or requirement, except in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of this
      Agreement. Denbury and PHMSA acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is entered into
      solely for the purpose of resolving this enforcement action, and nothing contained herein
      shall be construed as an admission of liability, fault, wrongdoing, or violation, and this
      Agreement shall not be construed as a violation for purposes of Denbury’s enforcement
      history.

II.      Corrective Measures

          12.   Upon issuance of the Consent Order, Denbury agrees to perform, or has already
      performed if so indicated, the Corrective Measures set forth below.

        13.     Following the termination of the inspection at Republic’s facility, Denbury
terminated Republic. Denbury’s completed horizontal directional drilling pipeline installation
did not ultimately include welds originating from the welding procedure or the welders it
attempted to qualify at the Republic facility. Following its acquisition by ExxonMobil, Denbury
later qualified a welding procedure and welders at a different welding facility.

         14.    Resulting from the acquisition of Denbury by ExxonMobil, Denbury adopted new
      procedures related to pipeline construction and pipeline operations relevant to the underlying
                                                                  CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV
                                                                                 Page 4 of 7

work performed at the inspection and the allegations in the Notice. These procedures
include:


      ExxonMobil Pipeline Company            Version Number/Date       Date of Transition
      Standard/Procedure                                               from Denbury
                                                                       Standard/Procedure
      Pipeline Welding Manual                Version 8.0, January      02/28–04/03/2025
                                             2025
      SWP-008 Hazardous Energy Control       Version 2.0, March 2024   07/01/2025
      SWP-010 Work Permitting Standard       Version 2.2, May 2025     07/01/2025
      SWP-012 Personal Protective            Version 2.1, April 2024   07/01/2025
      Equipment
      SWP-014 Hot Work/Low Energy            Version 2.2, September    07/01/2025
      Standard                               2021
      SWP-015 Welding Safety                 Version 2.0, March 2023   09/05/2025
      SWP-017 Contractor Safety              Version 6.0, April 2025   04/03/2025
      Contractor Safety and Administration   Version 6.0, April 2025   04/03/2025
      Manual
      OIMS 8.1 Third Party Services          June 2022 version        04/03/2025
                                             adopted by Denbury on
                                             04/03/2025; revised June
                                             2025


   15.    Further resulting from the acquisition of Denbury by ExxonMobil, Denbury
implemented the following:

       a. Regulatory compliance personnel receive on-the-job training and experience prior
          to leading an agency inspection by observing an inspection led by an experienced
          ExxonMobil regulatory compliance employee. Following the observation, the
          new regulatory compliance employee is prepared to lead an inspection. The
          regulatory compliance supervisor provides support and feedback as needed.

       b. Regulatory Compliance Training is presented to the regulatory compliance
          personnel in-person by a regulatory compliance team member. The training
          provides an overview of regulatory compliance requirements, sharing of
          examples, and encourages questions and discussion among participants. The
          training is developed internally by ExxonMobil Pipeline Company LLC and lasts
          at least an hour. Time is allotted for questions, discussion, and feedback, and
          feedback after the training is also encouraged. The regulatory compliance team
                                                                         CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV
                                                                                        Page 5 of 7

                  also provides continuous communications and training as new items
                  arise. Examples that may prompt the additional communications and training
                  include, but are not limited to, post-inspection reviews, new or revised regulatory
                  requirements, and newly published PHMSA interpretations or advisory bulletins.

              c. The regulatory compliance personnel receive training on the ExxonMobil
                 Standards of Business Conduct that includes, among other things, the
                 ExxonMobil policies on ethics, harassment, and environmental health and safety.
                 These employees complete an annual compliance statement at the end of each
                 year, which requires each employee to confirm he/she is familiar with/has read the
                 Standards of Business Conduct within the last 12 months. Additionally, there is
                 online Business Practices Review training for new employees and every two years
                 for existing employees, which covers the Standards of Business Conduct. This
                 training takes approximately one hour to complete and was last updated on June
                 23, 2025. The training is developed internally. An evaluation is provided after the
                 training allowing employees to provide feedback.

            16.   Within sixty (60) days of the entry of the Consent Order, PHMSA and Denbury
       will conduct a meeting, in-person or virtually, to discuss the events that took place at
       Republic’s facility on September 6, 7, 8, and 11, 2023. Attendees at the meeting will include
       the PHMSA inspectors who were present at the inspection at Republic’s facility, and the
       Denbury employees who were present at the inspection at Republic’s facility, to the extent
       still employed by PHMSA and Denbury, respectively. The deadline may be extended,
       pursuant to the requirements contained in Paragraph 19 below, to accommodate schedules.

III.      Dispute Resolution

           17.     The Director and Denbury will informally attempt to resolve any disputes arising
       under this Agreement, including any decision of the Director under the terms of Section II
       (Corrective Measures). If Denbury and the Director are unable to informally resolve the
       dispute within 15 calendar days after the dispute is first raised, in writing, to the Director,
       Denbury may submit a written request for a determination resolving the dispute from the
       Associate Administrator for Pipeline Safety. Such request must be made in writing and
       provided to the Director, counsel for the Southwest Region, and to the Associate
       Administrator no later than 10 calendar days from the 15-day deadline for informal
       resolution referenced in this paragraph. Along with its request, Denbury must provide the
       Associate Administrator with all information Denbury believes is relevant to the dispute.
       Decisions of the Associate Administrator under this paragraph will constitute final agency
       action. The existence of a dispute and PHMSA’s consideration of matters placed in dispute
       will not excuse, toll, or suspend any term or timeframe for completion of any work to be
       performed under this Agreement during the pendency of the dispute resolution process.

IV.       Enforcement

          18.    This Agreement is subject to all enforcement authorities available to PHMSA
       under 49 U.S.C. § 60101, et seq., and 49 CFR Part 190, including administrative civil
                                                                       CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV
                                                                                      Page 6 of 7

      penalties under 49 U.S.C. § 60122 of up to $272,926 per violation for each day the violation
      continues and referral of the case to the Attorney General for judicial enforcement, if
      PHMSA determines that Denbury is not complying with the terms of this Agreement in
      accordance with the determinations made by the Director, or in accordance with decisions of
      the Associate Administrator if resolved pursuant to the Dispute Resolution process herein.
      The maximum civil penalty amounts are adjusted annually for inflation. See 49 C.F.R. §
      190.223. All work plans and associated schedules set forth or referenced in Section II are
      automatically incorporated into this Agreement and are enforceable in the same manner.

V.       Effective Date

           19.    The term “Effective Date,” as used herein, is the date on which the Consent Order
      is issued by the Associate Administrator incorporating the terms of this Agreement.

VI.      Recordkeeping and Information Disclosure

          20.      Unless otherwise required in this Agreement, and to the extent records are
      required by Section II (Corrective Measures) of this Agreement, Denbury agrees to maintain
      records demonstrating compliance with all requirements of this Agreement for a period of at
      least five (5) years following completion of all work to be performed, unless a longer period
      of time is required pursuant to 49 CFR Parts 190-199. For any reports, plans, or other
      deliverables required to be submitted to PHMSA pursuant to this Agreement, Denbury may
      assert a claim of business confidentiality or other protections applicable to the release of
      information by PHMSA, covering part or all of the information required to be submitted to
      PHMSA pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with 49 CFR Part 7. Denbury must mark
      the claim of confidentiality in writing on each page, and include a statement specifying the
      grounds for each claim of confidentiality. PHMSA determines release of any information
      submitted pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with 49 CFR Part 7, the Freedom of
      Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552, DOT and PHMSA policies, and other applicable regulations
      and Executive Orders.

VII.     Modification

         21.    The terms of this Agreement may be modified by mutual agreement of the Parties.
      Such modifications must be in writing and signed by both parties.

VIII.    Termination

          22.     This Agreement will remain in effect until the Corrective Measures in Section II
      are satisfied, as determined by the Director. The Agreement shall not terminate until the
      Director confirms, in writing, that the Agreement is terminated in accordance with this
      paragraph, which the Director shall confirm no more than fifteen (15) days following a
      meeting that satisfies the requirements of Paragraph 14 of this Agreement. Nothing in this
      Agreement prevents Denbury from completing any of the obligations earlier than the
      deadlines provided for in this Agreement.
                                                                       CPF No. 4-2025-024-NOPV
                                                                                      Page 7 of 7

IX.      Ratification

          23.    The undersigned representatives of PHMSA and Denbury certify that they are
      fully authorized to enter into the terms and conditions of this Agreement and to execute and
      legally bind such party to this document.

         24.     PHSMA and Denbury hereby agree to all terms and conditions of this Agreement.




For Denbury Gulf Coast Pipelines, LLC:




Saul Flota, Vice President



Date




For PHMSA:




Director, Southwest Region
Office of Pipeline Safety



Date
