          RECORD OF DECISION

    Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site

     Brooklyn, Kings County, New York




United States Environmental Protection Agency
                   Region 2
             New York, New York

              September 2024


                                                *744534*
                                                  744534
                     DECLARATION FOR THE RECORD OF DECISION


SITE NAME AND LOCATION

Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site
Kings County, New York.

EPA Superfund Site Identification Number: NYN000203407
Operable Unit: 02

STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE

This Record of Decision (ROD) documents the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s)
selection of an interim remedy for Operable Unit 2 (OU2) of the Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund
Site (Site), in Kings County, New York, which was chosen in accordance with the requirements
of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as
amended (CERCLA), 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 - 9675, and the National Oil and Hazardous Substances
Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP), 40 CFR Part 300. This decision document explains the factual
and legal basis for selecting the OU2 remedy. The attached index (see Appendix III) identifies the
items that comprise the Administrative Record for this action, upon which the selected remedy is
based.

The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) was consulted on
the selected remedy in accordance with CERCLA Section 121(f), 42 U.S.C. § 9621(f), and concurs
with the selected remedy (see Appendix IV).

ASSESSMENT OF THE SITE

Actual or threatened releases of hazardous substances at or from the Site, if not addressed by
implementing the response action selected in this ROD, may present an imminent and substantial
endangerment to public health, welfare, or the environment.

DESCRIPTION OF THE SELECTED REMEDY

The remedial action described in this document addresses a portion of the Site involving
subsurface vapor intrusion at residential and non-residential structures at the Site. This operable
unit is the second of two operable units for the Site. A broad, comprehensive remedial investigation
and feasibility study (RI/FS) for the Site is currently ongoing, which is referred to as Operable
Unit 1 (OU1). The RI/FS includes the investigation of all media at the Site, including soil, soil gas,
groundwater, surface water, sediment, and air.

This selected remedy is an interim action to address vapor intrusion at residential and non-
residential structures at the Site. It is an interim action rather than a final action because it addresses
risks associated with subsurface vapor intrusion from contaminated groundwater but does not
address contaminated groundwater itself. This selected remedy is intended to encompass all

                                                     i
residential and non-residential structures within the OU1 study area where EPA has determined or
may determine in the future that remedial action is required to address Site-related vapor intrusion
(see Figure 1).

The major components of the selected remedy include the following:

   -   Vapor intrusion mitigation at residential and non-residential structures where multiple lines
       of evidence indicate that subsurface vapor intrusion is occurring, or has potential to occur,
       at concentrations that represent a threat, or potential threat, to human health. The vapor
       mitigation strategy to be used has the following key components, some or all of which may
       be used at any particular property:

           o Installation of a sub-slab depressurization system.

           o Preventative engineering measures such as the sealing of cracks and gaps in the
             lowest level of a structure and installing a concrete slab or comparable membrane
             system in instances where only a dirt floor is present.

   -   The operation and maintenance of the vapor mitigation measures for one year, after which
       responsibility for operation and maintenance will be turned over to NYSDEC.

The estimated present-worth cost of the selected remedy is $1,145,200.

The environmental benefits of the selected remedy may be improved by consideration, during
remedy design or implementation, of technologies and practices that are sustainable in accordance
with EPA Region 2’s Clean and Green Energy Policy.

DECLARATION OF STATUTORY DETERMINATIONS

The selected remedy meets the requirements for remedial actions set forth in CERCLA Section
121, 42 U.S.C. § 9621, because it meets the following requirements: 1) it is protective of human
health and the environment; 2) it complies with federal and state requirements that are applicable
or relevant and appropriate to the limited scope of the interim action; 3) it is cost-effective; and
4) it utilizes alternative treatment or resource recovery technologies to the maximum extent
practicable. The selected remedy is an interim action only and is not intended to be a permanent
solution.

The selected remedy does not satisfy the statutory preference for treatment as a principal element
of the remedy. Vapor intrusion mitigation does not treat the subsurface vapors, rather it serves to
prevent contaminated soil vapors from entering and/or accumulating in structures at
concentrations that represent a threat, or a potential threat, to human health. It is neither
practicable nor cost-effective to treat the small mass of contaminants in the vapors. The ongoing
RI/FS for OU1 will evaluate options for addressing contaminated groundwater, which is the
principal source of the vapors.



                                                 ii
A review of the remedial action pursuant to CERCLA Section 121(c), 42 U.S.C. §9621(c), will be
conducted within five years after the commencement of the remedial action to ensure that the
remedy continues to provide adequate protection to human health and the environment because
this remedy will result in hazardous substances remaining on-Site above health-based levels that
allow for unlimited use and unrestricted exposure.

ROD DATA CERTIFICATION CHECKLIST

The ROD contains the remedy selection information noted below. More details may be found in
the Administrative Record file for this Site.

      Contaminants of concern and their respective concentrations may be found in the
       “Summary of Site Characterization” section;
      Current and reasonably anticipated future land use assumptions and current and potential
       future beneficial uses of groundwater used in the expedited human health evaluation and
       ROD are discussed in the “Current and Potential Future Land and Resource Uses” section;
      Baseline risk represented by the contaminants of concern may be found in the “Summary
       of Site Risks” section;
      Cleanup levels established for contaminants of concern and the basis for these levels may
       be found in the “Remedial Action Objectives” section;
      Estimated capital, annual operation and maintenance (O&M), and total present-worth costs
       are discussed in the “Description of Remedial Alternatives” section;
      A discussion of principal threat waste may be found in the “Principal Threat Waste”
       section;
      Key factors used in selecting the remedy (i.e., how the selected remedy provides the best
       balance of tradeoffs with respect to the balancing and modifying criteria, highlighting
       criteria key to the decision) may be found in the “Comparative Analysis of Alternatives”
       and “Statutory Determinations” sections.




                                              iii
AUTHORIZING SIGNATURE

Evangelista, Digitally      signed by
                    Evangelista, Pat

Pat                 Date: 2024.09.27
                    09:12:06 -04'00'
________________________________________
                                              September 27, 2024
                                               ________________
Pat Evangelista, Director                             Date
Superfund and Emergency Management Division




                                         iv
         RECORD OF DECISION
         DECISION SUMMARY


    Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site
         Kings County, New York




United States Environmental Protection Agency
                   Region 2
             New York, New York
               September 2024
                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS

SITE NAME, LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION ............................................................ 1

SITE HISTORY AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES ................................................... 1

HIGHLIGHTS OF COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION ................................................... 2

SCOPE AND ROLE OF RESPONSE ACTION (OU2) .................................................... 2

SUMMARY OF SITE CHARACTERISTICS ................................................................. 3

  Overview.................................................................................................................... 3

  Geology and Hydrogeology ......................................................................................... 3

  Results of the Remedial Investigation (Vapor Intrusion)............................................... 5

  Results of the Remedial Investigation (Groundwater)................................................... 5

CURRENT AND POTENTIAL FUTURE LAND AND RESOURCE USES ..................... 6

  Land Uses .................................................................................................................. 6

  Groundwater and Surface Water Use .......................................................................... 6

  Environmental Justice ................................................................................................ 6

  Climate Change .......................................................................................................... 6

SUMMARY OF SITE RISKS ......................................................................................... 7

  Human Health Risk Assessment .................................................................................. 7

  Expedited Human Health Risk Evaluation Uncertainties .............................................. 11

  Basis for Action ......................................................................................................... 12
REMEDIAL ACTION OBJECTIVES ........................................................................... 12

  Remediation Goals .................................................................................................... 13

SUMMARY OF REMEDIAL ALTERNATIVES ........................................................... 14

  Alternative 1 - No Action ........................................................................................... 15

  Alternative 2 – Vapor Intrusion Mitigation ................................................................. 15

SUMMARY OF COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES ........................... 16

PRINCIPAL THREAT WASTE .................................................................................... 19

SELECTED REMEDY ................................................................................................ 20

STATUTORY DETERMINATIONS ............................................................................ 22

DOCUMENTATION OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGES ................................................... 23



LIST OF APPENDICES

APPENDIX I.                FIGURES
APPENDIX II.               TABLES
APPENDIX III.              ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD INDEX
APPENDIX IV.               STATE LETTER OF CONCURRENCE
APPENDIX V.                RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY
  Attachment A             Written Comments Submitted During Public Comment Period
  Attachment B             Proposed Plan
  Attachment C             Public Notice
  Attachment D             Public Meeting Transcript
SITE NAME, LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION

The Site is located in Brooklyn, Kings County, New York and as currently identified spans
approximately 191 acres across several city blocks in the Greenpoint and East Williamsburg area
of Brooklyn. The Brooklyn-Queens Expressway (BQE) roughly bisects the Site in a west-
southwest to east-northeast direction. Newtown Creek also forms a portion of the Site’s boundary
roughly in the north-northwest direction. The Site includes a mixture of residential, commercial,
and industrial uses. These land use designations are not anticipated to change in the future. The
total population within the Greenpoint and Williamsburg neighborhoods of Brooklyn where the
Site is located is approximately 160,000 people. Figure 1 shows the Site and the current Study
Area boundary. EPA has divided the Site into separate phases, or operable units (OUs), for
remediation purposes:

   -   Operable Unit 1: Includes the Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study (RI/FS) of the
       entire Study Area. A comprehensive RI/FS for OU1 was initiated in 2023 and is ongoing.
       The RI/FS includes the investigation of all media at the Site including soil, soil gas,
       groundwater, surface water, sediment and air.

   -   Operable Unit 2: Addresses unacceptable risks in indoor air at residential and non-
       residential structures resulting from Site-related contamination.

The Study Area boundary is preliminary and is defined as the area where the OU1 RI/FS activities
are currently focused; the boundary will be refined as the OU1 RI/FS continues and more data are
obtained. The ongoing performance of vapor intrusion sampling to identify additional properties
where the potential for vapor intrusion of Site-related contamination poses unacceptable risks will
continue as part of OU1. EPA’s goal is to conduct vapor intrusion sampling at as many properties
as possible at the Site.


SITE HISTORY AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES

The Site is located in a region of historic petroleum refining and storage operations that have
occupied a significant portion of the Greenpoint area since approximately 1866. Currently, bulk
oil storage terminals exist north of the Site and include the former British Petroleum Terminal
(now Kinder Morgan) and the ExxonMobil Brooklyn Terminal. The former Paragon Oil facility
was located along the northeastern portion of the Site along Newtown Creek, north of Bridgewater
Street, between Meeker Avenue and Apollo Street. The contamination associated with the Site was
discovered by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) during
investigation and remediation of an adjacent and overlapping petroleum groundwater
contamination area, which had resulted from historical petroleum refining and storage operations
along the banks of Newtown Creek. During several rounds of investigation, chlorinated volatile
organic compounds (CVOCs), including but not limited to trichlorethylene (TCE) and
tetrachlorethylene (PCE), were found in subsurface soil gas, soil, and groundwater outside the
petroleum spill area. Upon discovery of the CVOC contamination, NYSDEC initiated
investigations in the area to determine the extent and sources of CVOC contamination, as well as
the potential impacts of this contamination on the community.
                                                1
Since 2007, NYSDEC, in conjunction with the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH),
has conducted multiple investigations related to the Site. These investigations have consisted of
soil, groundwater, soil gas, and soil vapor intrusion sampling. NYSDEC completed nine separate
Site characterization investigations between 2007 and 2016 and ten soil vapor intrusion
investigations between 2007 and 2023. In total, NYSDEC sampled more than 166 properties and
installed sub-slab depressurization systems at approximately 26 structures to address vapor
intrusion throughout the course of their investigations.

On March 17, 2022, the Site was added to EPA’s National Priorities List pursuant to CERCLA.
As mentioned above, EPA is currently conducting the OU1 RI/FS for the Site.

Enforcement-related activities have been initiated at the Site, and EPA is in the process of
conducting a search for potentially responsible parties at the Site.

HIGHLIGHTS OF COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION

EPA released the Focused Feasibility Study (FFS) report and the Proposed Plan for the OU2
remedy to the public for comment on April 5, 2024. EPA made these documents available
electronically to the public in the administrative record file for this action at the EPA Superfund
Records Room in Region 2, New York, the information repository at the Greenpoint Library, and
online at: https://www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-plume. The notice of availability for
these documents was published in the Brooklyn Daily Eagle, on the Nowy Dziennik website, and
via the Greenpointers newsletter on April 5, 2024, and in Abecadlo on April 12, 2024. The initial
30-day public comment period on these documents was scheduled from April 5, 2024 to May 10,
2024 and was extended to June 25, 2024 at the request of various community groups. The notice
of extension was published via the Greenpointers newsletter on April 12, 2024 in the Brooklyn
Daily Eagle and in Abecadlo on April 19, 2024, and in Nowy Dziennik on April 20, 2024.

On April 16, 2024, EPA conducted a public meeting at St. Stanislaus Kostka Church, Brooklyn,
New York, to inform local officials and members of the public about the Superfund process,
present the findings of the RI/FS thus far and EPA’s Proposed Plan to the community, review
current and planned remedial activities at the Site, and respond to questions from area residents
and other attendees. EPA responses to the comments received at the public meeting and in writing
during the public comment period are included in the Responsiveness Summary (see Appendix
V).

SCOPE AND ROLE OF RESPONSE ACTION (OU2)

Section 300.5 of the NCP, 40 CFR Section 300.5, defines an OU as a discrete action that comprises
an incremental step toward comprehensively addressing a site’s contamination. A discrete portion
of a remedial response eliminates or mitigates a release, a threat of release, or pathway of exposure.
The cleanup of a site can be divided into a number of OUs, depending on the complexity of the
problems associated with the site. As noted above, EPA has designated two OUs for the Meeker
Avenue Plume Superfund Site.


                                                  2
As described above, OU1 currently is broader and more comprehensive than the more focused
OU2. A comprehensive RI/FS for OU1 was initiated in 2023 and is ongoing. That RI/FS includes
the investigation of all media at the Site, including soil, soil gas, groundwater, surface water,
sediment, and air. This ROD identifies an interim remedy for OU2, which is to address
unacceptable risks in indoor air resulting from Site-related contamination. EPA uses interim
actions to address areas or contaminated media that ultimately may be included in the final ROD
for a site. Interim actions include measures to treat contamination in an operable unit and/or
prevent migration of contaminants or further environmental degradation until such time as a final
remedial decision is issued. The RI/FS for OU1 is still in its early stages. As such, the OU2 remedy
is considered interim while EPA’s overall conceptual site model of the Site is being developed.
The selected remedy for OU2 will be reviewed on an ongoing basis to determine if any changes
are needed. The ongoing performance of vapor intrusion sampling to identify additional properties
where the potential for subsurface vapor intrusion of Site-related contamination poses
unacceptable risks will continue as part of OU1 of the Site. EPA’s goal is to conduct vapor
intrusion sampling at as many properties as possible at the Site. A final action for OU1 will be
developed at the conclusion of the RI/FS.


SUMMARY OF SITE CHARACTERISTICS

Overview

As mentioned previously, since 2007, NYSDEC, in conjunction with NYSDOH, has conducted
multiple investigations related to the Site consisting of soil, groundwater, soil gas, indoor air, and
ambient air sampling. While CVOC contamination has been detected in the subsurface and
indoor air of occupied residential and non-residential structures within the preliminary OU1
Study Area, and several source areas have already been identified, the extent of groundwater,
soil and subsurface vapor contamination associated with the Site and the subsequent impacts to
indoor air have not been fully delineated. As such, EPA is conducting a comprehensive OU1
RI/FS to fully investigate the nature and extent of contamination present at the Site, the risks to
human health and the environment associated with the contamination, and alternatives to address
the risk. Part of this effort will include the identification and investigation of the known and
potential additional sources of contamination. The current preliminary Study Area shown on
Figure 1 was based on the information gathered by NYSDEC to date; EPA will update this map
as needed as the RI/FS continues.

Geology and Hydrogeology

Based on soil borings performed at and near the Site by NYSDEC and other investigators, the
Site is underlain by the Upper Glacial aquifer, the Raritan Formation, and crystalline bedrock.
The primary hydrogeologic unit is the Upper Glacial aquifer, which consists of a terminal
moraine, a ground moraine, and glacial outwash deposits, and is characterized by the United
States Geological Survey as an unsorted and unstratified mixture of clay, sand, gravel, and
boulders. Textural units identified by NYSDEC in the Upper Glacial aquifer at the Site include
fill material, silty sand, sandy silt, sand, and localized clayey silt/silt. Based on slug test results
from several Meeker Avenue Plume Site monitoring wells, the hydraulic conductivity of the
Upper Glacial aquifer ranges from 8.32 x 10-5 centimeters per second (cm/s) to 2.91 x 10-2 cm/s.
                                                   3
At and near the Site, the Upper Glacial aquifer is underlain by the Raritan Formation unit at an
approximate depth of 100 to 140 feet below ground surface. The Raritan Formation, which
consists of clay, silty clay, and clayey to silty fine sand, exhibits hydraulic conductivity less than
1 x 10-6 cm/s and is recognized as a confining unit. The water table surface occurs in the Upper
Glacial aquifer from approximately 10 to 60 feet below ground surface.

In general, natural groundwater flow in the aquifer is to the east and northeast. However, the
large, off-site groundwater pump and treat system that has been operated since the mid-1990s as
part of an effort to cleanup an overlapping petroleum groundwater contamination area has
produced localized cones of depression. The overall Site hydrogeology is being further explored
through the OU1 RI/FS process.

Vapor Intrusion Description

The soil, soil gas, and groundwater at the Site are contaminated with CVOCs. CVOCs are a
subset of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which are substances that typically evaporate at
room temperature. They can affect the indoor air of properties located in close proximity to
contaminated areas by entering the indoor air of structures through small cracks, pipes or other
points of entry. Subsurface soil vapor intrusion inside residential and commercial buildings is a
major concern at the Site. VOCs are also commonly found in household products such as
cleaning supplies, building products like paints and air fresheners. Therefore, sampling indoor air
for the presence of Site-related contamination is a complex process that involves sampling both
the indoor air and the air beneath the structure (referred to as sub-slab) over time to understand
how vapors might be migrating indoors. Common household sources of VOCs also need to be
removed during testing so that the results can reliably reflect what may be entering the structure
from the contaminated material beneath it, as opposed to from materials in the building.

The soil vapor intrusion sampling being conducted by EPA as part of the OU1 RI/FS is typically
a three-day process, which can generally be described as follows, though slight modifications to
this approach can be made on an as-needed basis:

      Day 1: EPA inspects the property for any potential sources of VOCs and temporarily
       stores any that are found. EPA then installs a sub-slab soil gas port, which involves
       drilling an approximately quarter-sized hole through the lowest level floor of a structure.
       Day 1 activities typically takes EPA between 1 and 1.5 hours to complete.

      Day 2: EPA returns to make sure the port is functioning properly and, assuming it is,
       places sampling devices throughout the lowest one or two levels of the property
       (typically, basement and first floor). These sampling devices need to be left in place to
       collect air passively for 24 hours for residential properties and at least 8 hours for non-
       residential properties. Day 2 activities typically take EPA about 1 hour to complete.

      Day 3: EPA returns to collect the air samplers, which typically takes less than 1 hour to
       complete.

                                                  4
Ideally, this sampling is conducted during the winter heating season, which runs from mid-
November through March in the New York City area, because this is when the greatest potential
for subsurface vapor intrusion is expected to occur.

The results of the sampling are evaluated through multiple lines of evidence to make
recommendations on next steps. The potential recommendations may include (1) that the results
clearly indicate that no action is required; (2) that the results are not clear and additional
sampling is required; or (3) the results indicate that contamination from the soil, groundwater,
and/or soil gas is entering or has the potential to enter the structure above Remedial Action
Levels (further defined below) and, therefore, soil vapor mitigation in the structure is required.

Results of the Remedial Investigation (Vapor Intrusion)

There are currently between 900 and 1,000 properties within the Study Area for the Site that are
potentially impacted by subsurface vapor intrusion of Site-related contamination; the potential
for subsurface vapor intrusion depends on multiple factors, including the condition of the
building itself and the level of contamination beneath and near a structure. As such, EPA’s goal
is to conduct vapor intrusion sampling at as many properties as possible within the Study Area.
As part of this effort, EPA has been seeking consent for access to conduct the sampling while
working closely with the community on outreach efforts to help increase awareness about the
Site and encourage the public’s overall willingness to provide access.

EPA began soil vapor intrusion sampling activities at the Site as part of OU1 in November 2022.
As of December 2023, EPA has conducted vapor intrusion sampling and fully evaluated the
results at 18 residential structures, 11 public housing buildings, and one public school. Out of
these, EPA has determined that vapor mitigation is not needed at this time at any of the
properties it has sampled, and that further monitoring should be conducted at three of the
residential properties. In addition, in February and March 2024, EPA sampled 18 properties and
is currently evaluating the results, and will be conducting additional sampling in the future.
NYSDEC did, however, identify 26 properties that they determined required the installation of
sub-slab depressurization systems to mitigate risks from vapor intrusion when they were
conducting work prior to the Site being designated as a Superfund site, and two that required the
sealing of cracks/gaps. As such, EPA fully anticipates identifying additional properties that
would require vapor intrusion mitigation during the ongoing OU1 RI/FS process.

Results of the Remedial Investigation (Groundwater)

EPA has recently completed an initial round of groundwater sampling at the Site. This sampling
effort included surveying more than 370 existing groundwater monitoring wells and sampling
344 of these for CERCLA-related hazardous substances including VOCs, semi-volatile organic
compounds, 1,4-dioxane, pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls, metals, and per and
polyfluoroalkyl substances. Once the analytical results from the groundwater sampling are fully
available, the data will be used to refine the extent of the preliminary Study Area, to determine
the location of additional wells that need to be installed to fill in data gaps, and to help better
determine areas where future vapor intrusion sampling should be conducted.


                                                 5
CURRENT AND POTENTIAL FUTURE LAND AND RESOURCE USES

Land Uses

As mentioned previously, the Site currently spans approximately 191 acres across several city
blocks in the Greenpoint and East Williamsburg area of Brooklyn. The BQE, a major highway
that connects Brooklyn and Queens, roughly bisects the Site and Newtown Creek forms a portion
of the Site’s boundary. Over 1,000 individual properties are located within the preliminary Study
Area and these properties include a mixture of residential, commercial, and industrial uses.
While the land use on any particular lot may change over time, the general mix of land use
designations is not anticipated to change significantly in the future. The total population within
the Greenpoint and Williamsburg neighborhoods of Brooklyn where the Site is located is
approximately 160,000 people.

Groundwater and Surface Water Use

The groundwater beneath the Site is not currently used as a drinking water source, and there are
no surface water bodies present within the current Study Area. The Site does border Newtown
Creek, which has also been designated a separate National Priorities List Superfund site. Any
potential impacts related to Newtown Creek from the Meeker Avenue Plume Site will be
determined through the OU1 RI/FS process.

Environmental Justice

EPA’s EJScreen tool, a tool to evaluate environmental justice impacts, shows that approximately
34% of the community in the vicinity of the Site identifies as non-English speakers. The top
three most frequently used non-English languages are Spanish (14%) Polish (9%), and Chinese
(2%). Approximately 80% of housing units are renter occupied, and approximately 42% of the
population has less than a high school education. Based on the findings of the EJScreen Report
for the Site, EPA determined that the community would benefit from multiple modes of outreach
and educational materials in multiple languages. For example, EPA has conducted outreach
through social media, public meetings, door-to-door engagement, local tabling events, and by
facilitating the creation of a Community Advisory Group (CAG) and attending those meetings.
EPA has also provided site-related fact sheets in multiple languages including English, Polish,
Spanish, and Chinese. The findings of the EJScreen Report also indicated the community is in
the 98th percentile for Superfund proximity, which the community has expressed concerns about.
EPA is actively addressing this concern by discussing the surrounding Superfund sites at CAG
meetings and providing information and educational maps about these sites.

Climate Change

Potential Site impacts from climate change have been assessed, and the performance of the
remedy selected herein is currently not at risk because of the expected effects of climate change


                                                6
in the region and near the Site. Potential Site impacts from climate change will be further
evaluated as part of the ongoing OU1 RI/FS.

SUMMARY OF SITE RISKS

EPA typically conducts baseline human health and ecological risk assessments to assess the
potential adverse human health and ecological effects of releases of hazardous substances from a
site in the absence of any actions or controls to mitigate such releases, under current and future
land uses. In this case, there are no completed ecological exposure pathways as the focus of this
action is on subsurface vapor intrusion into structures. As such, an ecological risk assessment
was not performed as part of the OU2 evaluation process.

EPA conducted an expedited human health risk evaluation of the soil vapor intrusion exposure
pathway as part of the FFS for OU2 to estimate the risks and hazards associated with exposure to
Site-related contaminants of potential concern (COPCs) in indoor air. The evaluation utilized
data obtained by both NYSDEC and EPA available at the time. The expedited human health risk
evaluation for OU2 of the Site, formally entitled “Expedited Vapor Intrusion Evaluation and
Estimation of Potential Human Health Risks” is available in Appendix D of the FFS document,
which can be found in the administrative record for the Site.

The approach for the expedited risk evaluation consisted of comparing sub-slab soil vapor and
indoor air concentrations against EPA’s current, chemical-specific, risk-based vapor intrusion
screening levels (VISLs). All vapor intrusion data collected by NYSDEC and EPA at the time
the expedited human health risk evaluation was conducted was considered in the evaluation.
Three properties from the NYSDEC data, including two residential properties (P001 and P002)
and one commercial facility (P003), were chosen for this evaluation. These properties were
chosen because, based on a review of the data, they were representative of high-end exposure
conditions to nearby residents, commercial/industrial or mixed-use buildings potentially
impacted by groundwater and soil vapor contamination at the Site. In addition, data from three
residences (P004, P005 and P006) collected during the November 2022 sampling round was also
included in the expedited risk evaluation for overall completeness. The subsequent section
discusses EPA’s human health risk assessment process used in the expedited human health risk
evaluation for OU2 in more detail.

Human Health Risk Assessment

A four-step process is utilized for assessing site-related human health risks for a reasonable
maximum exposure scenario:

      Hazard Identification – uses the analytical data collected to identify the contaminants of
       potential concern at the Site for each medium, with consideration of a number of factors
       explained below;
      Exposure Assessment - estimates the magnitude of actual and/or potential human
       exposures, the frequency and duration of these exposures, and the pathways (e.g.,
       ingesting contaminated well-water) by which humans are potentially exposed;


                                                 7
      Toxicity Assessment - determines the types of adverse health effects associated with
       chemical exposures, and the relationship between magnitude of exposure (dose) and
       severity of adverse effects (response); and
      Risk Characterization - summarizes and combines outputs of the exposure and toxicity
       assessments to provide a quantitative assessment of site-related risks. The risk
       characterization also identifies contamination with concentrations which exceed
       acceptable levels, defined by the National Contingency Plan (NCP) as an excess lifetime
       cancer risk greater than 1 x 10-6 to 1 x 10-4 or a noncancer Hazard Index greater than 1;
       contaminants at these concentrations are considered chemicals of concern (COCs) and
       are typically those that will require remediation at the Site. Also included in this section
       is a discussion of the uncertainties associated with these risks.

Hazard Identification

In this step, the COPCs in sub-slab and indoor air were identified based on such factors as
toxicity, frequency of occurrence, fate and transport of the contaminants in the environment,
concentrations, mobility, persistence, and bioaccumulation. Based on the data collected to date,
TCE, PCE and 1,1,1-trichlorethane (TCA) were detected with the greatest frequency. Of these
three contaminants, only TCE and PCE exceeded the VISLs for indoor air and sub-slab. Based
on this information, the risk assessment focused on sub-slab and indoor air results from vapor
intrusion sampling and contaminants which may pose significant risk to human health. As shown
in Table 1, the COCs identified for OU2 include PCE and TCE.

Exposure Assessment

Consistent with Superfund policy and guidance, the expedited human health risk evaluation
assumed no remediation has been performed and no institutional controls are in place to mitigate
or remove hazardous substance releases. Cancer risks and noncancer hazard indices were
calculated based on an estimate of the reasonable maximum exposure (RME) expected to occur
under current and future conditions at the Site. The RME is defined as the highest exposure that
is reasonably expected to occur at a site.

As previously mentioned, over 1,000 individual properties are located within the preliminary
Study Area; these properties include a mixture of residential, commercial, and industrial uses.
While the land use on any particular lot may change over time, the general mix of land use
designations is not anticipated to change significantly in the future. The expedited human health
risk evaluation assessed potential risks to populations associated with both current and potential
future land uses. Exposure pathways were identified for each potentially exposed population at
the Site. As such, current/future resident and commercial/industrial workers were evaluated for
inhalation exposures to contaminants in indoor and sub-slab air. A summary of the exposure
pathways included in the expedited human health risk evaluation can be found in Table 2.

Typically, exposures are evaluated using a statistical estimate of the exposure point
concentration, which is usually an upper bound estimate of the average concentration for each
contaminant, but in some cases may be the maximum detected concentration. In the case of the
human health risk evaluation for OU2 of the Site, the maximum detected concentration in indoor

                                                 8
air and sub-slab at each property (P001- P006) were used to represent reasonable maximum
exposure scenarios. A summary of the exposure point concentrations for COCs in each medium
can be found in Table 1, while a more comprehensive list of the exposure point concentrations
for all COPCs identified for OU2 can be found in the Appendix D of the FFS document.

Toxicity Assessment

In this step, the types of adverse health effects associated with contaminant exposures and the
relationship between magnitude of exposure and severity of adverse health effects were
determined. Potential health effects are contaminant-specific and may include the risk of
developing cancer over a lifetime or other noncancer health effects, such as changes in the
normal functions of organs within the body (e.g., changes in the effectiveness of the immune
system). Some contaminants are capable of causing both cancer and noncancer health effects.

Under current EPA guidelines, the likelihood of carcinogenic risks and noncancer hazards due to
exposure to site chemicals are considered separately. Consistent with current EPA policy, it was
assumed that the toxic effects of the Site-related chemicals would be additive. Thus, cancer and
noncancer risks associated with exposures to individual COPCs were summed to indicate the
potential risks and hazards associated with mixtures of potential carcinogens and
noncarcinogens, respectively.

Toxicity data for the expedited human health risk evaluation were provided by the Integrated
Risk Information System database, the Provisional Peer Reviewed Toxicity Value database, or
another source that was identified as an appropriate reference for toxicity values
(https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2015-11/documents/tier3-toxicityvalue-whitepaper.pdf).
This information is presented in Table 3 (noncancer toxicity data summary) and Table 4 (cancer
toxicity data summary).

Risk Characterization

This step summarized and combined outputs of the exposure and toxicity assessments to provide
a quantitative assessment of Site risks. Exposures were evaluated based on the potential risk of
developing cancer and the potential for noncancer health hazards.

Noncancer risks were assessed using a hazard index (HI) approach, based on a comparison of
expected contaminant intakes and benchmark comparison levels of intake (reference doses,
reference concentrations). Reference doses (RfDs) and reference concentrations (RfCs) are
estimates of daily exposure levels for humans (including sensitive individuals) which are thought
to be safe over a lifetime of exposure. The estimated intake of chemicals identified in
environmental media (e.g., the amount of a chemical ingested from contaminated drinking water)
is compared to the RfD or the RfC to derive the hazard quotient (HQ) for the contaminant in the
particular medium. The HI is obtained by adding the hazard quotients for all compounds within a
particular medium that impacts a particular receptor population.




                                                9
The HQ for inhalation exposures is calculated as below.

HQ = EC/(RfC*1000µg/mg)

Where:         HQ = hazard quotient
               EC = exposure concentration (µg/m3)
               RfC = reference concentration (mg/m3)
               1000µg/mg= conversion factor

The exposure concentration and the RfC will represent the same exposure period (i.e., chronic,
subchronic, or acute).

The HI is calculated by summing the HQs for all chemicals for likely exposure scenarios for a
specific population. The noncancer HI is a “threshold level,” set at an HI of less than 1, below
which noncancer health effects are not expected to occur. An HI greater than 1 indicates that the
potential exists for noncarcinogenic health effects to occur as a result of site-related exposures,
with the potential for health effects increasing as the HI increases. When the HI calculated for all
chemicals for a specific population exceeds 1, separate HI values are then calculated for those
chemicals which are known to act on the same target organ. These discrete HI values are then
compared to the acceptable limit of 1 to evaluate the potential for noncancer health effects on a
specific target organ. The HI provides a useful reference point for gauging the potential
significance of multiple contaminant exposures within a single medium or across media. A
summary of the noncarcinogenic risks associated with these chemicals for each exposure
pathway is contained in Table 5.

As shown in Table 5, the HI for noncancer effects stemming from exposure to TCE (HI=6) and
PCE (HI=4) in indoor air exceeded EPA’s threshold of 1 at P001 during the 2008/2009 heating
season. This same sampling location, P001, was associated with an HQ of 2 from exposure to
TCE in indoor air during the 2009/2010 sampling round. All other indoor air locations evaluated
were found to be below or at the threshold value of 1 when considering noncancer effects that act
one the same target organ. As for sub-slab results, exceedances of the noncancer hazard for TCE
(HI=4) and PCE (HI=3) were shown in location P001 during the 2008/2009 heating season. TCE
in sub-slab location P002 was associated with a HI of 2 for the 2009/2010 sampling round.
Finally, in the 2020/2021 heating season, the commercial zoned property, P003, showed TCE
concentrations in sub-slab that correlated to a HI exceedance of 99.

For carcinogens, risks are generally expressed as the incremental probability of an individual
developing cancer over a lifetime as a result of exposure to a carcinogen, using the cancer slope
factor (SF) for oral and dermal exposures and the inhalation unit risk (IUR) for inhalation
exposures. Excess lifetime cancer risk for oral and dermal exposures is calculated from the
following equation, while the equation for inhalation exposures uses the IUR, rather than the SF:

Risk = LADD x SF

Where:         Risk = a unitless probability (1 x 10-6) of an individual developing cancer
               LADD = lifetime average daily dose averaged over 70 years (mg/kg-day)

                                                10
                  SF = cancer slope factor, expressed as [1/(mg/kg-day)]

These risks are probabilities that are usually expressed in scientific notation (such as 1 x 10-4).
An excess lifetime cancer risk of 1 x 10-4 indicates that one additional incidence of cancer may
occur in a population of 10,000 people who are exposed under the conditions identified in the
assessment. Again, as stated in the National Contingency Plan, the acceptable risk range for site-
related exposure is 10-6 to 10-4.

Results of the expedited human health risk evaluation presented in Table 6 indicate that the
cancer risk estimates from exposure to PCE and TCE in indoor air were all within the acceptable
risk range for the six properties evaluated. The combined cancer risks associated with exposure
to TCE and/or PCE in indoor air ranged from 1.2x10-6 at location P005 to 4.1x10-5 at location
P001. Considering sub-slab results, all cancer risk estimates for the properties evaluated were
below or within EPA’s cancer risk range with the exception of sub-slab at P003. Considering
sub-slab data collected during the 2020/2021 heating season for location P003, the resultant
cancer risk estimate exceedance of 2.9 x10-4 was found to be driven by exposure to TCE in sub-
slab.

In summary, although the cancer risk estimates from exposure to PCE and TCE in indoor air
were within EPA’s acceptable cancer risk range of 10-6 to 10-4, the expedited human risk
evaluation found that the noncancer hazard estimates exceeded EPA’s threshold of 1 at location
P001. Indoor air COCs identified at location P001 included TCE and PCE. Similarly, sub-slab
exceedances above an HI of 1 were found stemming from exposure to TCE and/or PCE in P001,
P002 and P003. Further, cancer risk estimates associated with exposure to TCE in sub-slab of
location P003 exceeded EPA’s threshold cancer range of 1x10-4. 1

Expedited Human Health Risk Evaluation Uncertainties

The procedures and inputs used to assess risks in this evaluation, as in all such assessments, are
subject to a wide variety of uncertainties. In general, the main sources of uncertainty include:
         • environmental chemistry sampling and analysis
         • environmental parameter measurement
         • fate and transport modeling
         • exposure parameter estimation
         • toxicological data.
Uncertainty in environmental sampling arises in part from the potentially uneven distribution of
contaminants in the media sampled. Consequently, there is significant uncertainty as to the actual




1
  All properties that were identified as having unacceptable risk have sub-slab depressurization systems installed in
them.
                                                         11
levels present. Environmental chemistry-analysis error can stem from several sources including
the errors inherent in the analytical methods and characteristics of the matrix being sampled.
Uncertainties in the exposure assessment are related to estimates of how often an individual
would actually come in contact with the contaminants of concern, the period of time over which
such exposure would occur, and in the models used to estimate the concentrations of the
contaminants of concern at the point of exposure. However, the exposure pathways at residential
and commercial/industrial properties assume standard exposure assumptions (USEPA, 2014) and
hence are not expected to underestimate calculated cancer risk and noncancer hazard.
Uncertainties in toxicological data occur in extrapolating both from animals to humans and from
high to low doses of exposure, as well as from the difficulties in assessing the toxicity of a
mixture of contaminants. These uncertainties are addressed by making conservative assumptions
concerning risk and exposure parameters throughout the assessment. As a result, the risk
assessment provides upper-bound estimates of the risks to populations near the Site and is highly
unlikely to underestimate actual risks related to the Site.
A Site-specific uncertainty associated with the expedited risk evaluation is that risks associated
with other contaminants besides PCE, TCE and 1,1,1-TCA were not evaluated, and this may
result in an underestimate of cancer risks and noncancer HQs. However, the uncertainty is not
expected to be large since TCE and PCE are understood to be the primary Site-related
contaminants based on historical sampling results and records review. Nevertheless, EPA will
be performing additional risk evaluations, and other compounds may be further evaluated as part
of future VI risk assessments.
More specific information concerning public health risks, including a quantitative evaluation of
the degree of risk associated with various exposure pathways, is presented in the expedited risk
evaluation document available in the administrative record (Appendix D of the FFS).
Basis for Action

Based on the results of the expedited human health risk evaluation, actual or threatened releases
of hazardous substances from OU2 of the Site, if not addressed by implementing the response
action selected in the ROD, may present an imminent and substantial endangerment to the public
health, welfare, or the environment.

REMEDIAL ACTION OBJECTIVES

Remedial action objectives (RAOs) are specific media-specific goals to protect human health and
the environment; they specify the contaminant(s) of concern, the exposure route(s), receptor(s),
and acceptable contaminant level(s) for each exposure route. These objectives are based on
available information and standards such as ARARs, to-be-considered (TBC) advisories, criteria
and guidance, and site-specific risk-based levels and background (i.e., reference area)
concentrations.

The following remedial action objectives were established for OU2 to address subsurface soil
vapor intrusion at the Site:


                                                12
       Prevent exposure by current and future occupants to Site-related PCE and TCE-
        contaminated vapors within structures that would result in a noncancer hazard index
        greater than 1.
       Prevent the migration of contaminated subsurface vapors into the indoor air of structures
        from Site-related PCE and TCE in soil and/or groundwater above remedial action levels
        (RALs) based on current and reasonably anticipated future land use.

Vapor intrusion investigations are ongoing as part of the OU1 RI/FS. If other Site-related
CVOCs are detected above levels of concern and/or if additional contaminants of concern are
identified during the OU1 RI/FS and mitigative measures are needed to address their impact, or
potential impact, on indoor air, then they may also be addressed.

Remediation Goals

Achieving the RAOs relies on the remedial alternatives’ ability to meet final remediation
goals/cleanup levels derived from preliminary remediation goals (PRGs), which are generally
chemical-specific goals for each medium and/or exposure route that are established to protect
human health and the environment. They can be based on such factors as ARARs, risk, and from
comparison to background levels of contaminants in the environment that occur naturally or are
from other industrial sources.

PRGs become final remediation goals (RGs), or in this case, RALs, when EPA selects a remedy
after taking into consideration all public comments. To achieve the RAOs for OU2, EPA has
identified the following RALs2 for TCE and PCE:

                      Residential Remedial                       Commercial / Industrial Remedial
                      Action Levels (µg/m3)                      Action Levels3(µg/m3)
          COC
                      Indoor Air            Sub- slab             Indoor Air             Sub- slab

          TCE          2.1                   70                   8.8                     290
          PCE          42                    1,400                180                     5,800

The RALs represent current EPA VISLs set at a target HQ = 1, which, for PCE and TCE, falls
midway between EPA’s cancer risk range of 1x10-6 to 1x10-4. These RALs will be considered
with other Site-specific lines of evidence such as subsurface geology and hydrogeology,
subsurface contamination levels, the structural characteristics of each building, and proximity to
other impacted structures in determining whether there is a need for remedial action. The need
for remedial action will also be determined in consultation with NYSDEC and the NYSDOH,


2
  Consistent with EPA’s Technical Guide for Assessing and Mitigating the Vapor Intrusion Pathway (OSWER
9200.2154, 2015), the RALs are developed assuming that there is attenuation as vapors migrate from the sub-slab to
indoor air. EPA’s guidance assumes that indoor air concentrations would be 33 times lower than those is the sub-
slab.
3
 The commercial/industrial RALs assume an eight-hour workday, which is protective of most non-residential
settings and can be adjusted as needed to account for property-specific conditions.
                                                        13
including consideration of NYSDOH’s Guidance for Evaluating Soil Vapor Intrusion in the
State of New York.

Whether to apply the residential RAL or Commercial/Industrial RAL will also be determined on
a case-by-case basis, in consultation with NYSDEC and NYSDOH. In general, EPA understands
that many properties that are zoned for non-residential use may be used, either regularly or from
time-to-time, in what would be more consistent with residential exposure assumptions. The
residential RALs may be used at any property, residential or non-residential, if there is reason to
believe the commercial/industrial RALs are not sufficiently protective, either under current or
reasonably anticipated future use scenarios.

Finally, as stated above, if additional contaminants of concern are identified during the ongoing
OU1 RI/FS that may adversely affect indoor air, EPA’s VISLs and NYSDOH guidance will be
reviewed and, if warranted, appropriate mitigative actions will be taken.

SUMMARY OF REMEDIAL ALTERNATIVES

CERCLA Section 121(b)(1), 42 U.S.C. §9621(b)(1), requires that a remedial action be protective
of human health and the environment, cost effective, and utilize permanent solutions and
alternative treatment technologies or resource recovery technologies to the maximum extent
practicable. Section 121(b)(1) also establishes a preference for remedial actions which employ,
as a principal element, treatment to permanently and significantly reduce the volume, toxicity, or
mobility of the hazardous substances, pollutants and contaminants at a site. CERCLA Section
121(d), 42 U.S.C. §9621(d), further specifies that a remedial action must attain a level or
standard of control of the hazardous substances, pollutants, and contaminants, which at least
attains ARARs under federal and state laws, unless a waiver can be justified pursuant to
CERCLA Section 121(d)(4), 42 U.S.C. §9621(d)(4).

Potential technologies applicable to subsurface vapor intrusion mitigation were identified and
screened using the effectiveness, implementability, and cost criteria, with emphasis on
effectiveness. Those technologies that passed the initial screening were assembled into
alternatives.

This ROD evaluates in detail two remedial alternatives for addressing the contamination
associated with the Site. The time to implement a remedial alternative reflects only the time
required to construct or implement the remedy and does not include the time required to
negotiate with the responsible parties, design the remedy, procure contracts for design and
construction, or conduct operation and maintenance at the Site. Detailed information regarding
the alternatives can be found in the FFS report.

A review of the remedial action pursuant to CERCLA Section 121(c), 42 U.S.C. §9621(c), will
be conducted five years after the commencement of the remedial action to ensure that the remedy
continues to provide adequate protection to human health and the environment because this
remedy will result in hazardous substances remaining on-Site above health-based levels that
allow for unlimited use and unrestricted exposure.


                                                14
Description of Remedial Alternatives

Alternative 1 - No Action

Alternative 1, the “No Action” alternative, is required by the NCP to provide an environmental
baseline against which impacts of the other remedial alternatives can be compared. No action
would be initiated to remediate contaminated media or otherwise mitigate the migration of
contamination that poses unacceptable risks to human health and the environment. This
alternative also does not include monitoring or institutional controls.

Total Capital Cost:                    $0
Total O&M:                             $0
Total Present Net Worth:               $0
Construction Timeframe:                0 years

Alternative 2 – Vapor Intrusion Mitigation

Under this alternative, subsurface vapor intrusion mitigation would be implemented at structures
where EPA determines that, based on multiple lines of evidence, vapor intrusion of the COCs is
occurring, or has the potential to occur, at concentrations that exceed the RALs. The goal of vapor
intrusion mitigation would be to prevent contaminated soil vapors from entering and/or
accumulating in structures at concentrations that represent a threat, or a potential threat, to human
health. The potential for vapor intrusion to occur at a particular structure is dependent upon several
factors, including subsurface geology and hydrogeology, the structural characteristics of a
building, and the proximity to other impacted structures or sources. Different impacted structures
may therefore require different vapor mitigation strategies based on factors such as age of the
building and construction type, the depth to groundwater beneath a structure, etc. For the purposes
of the cost estimate, the mitigation actions include installing active, sub-slab depressurization
mitigation systems as well as preventative engineering measures such as sealing cracks and gaps
in the lowest level of a structure and installing a concrete slab or comparable membrane system in
instances where only a dirt floor is present.

The cost estimate reflects the estimated costs for mitigation in the event that an estimated 100
structures within the Study Area are found to require vapor mitigation as a result of sampling and
the other lines of evidence described above. This represents approximately 10 percent of the
properties within the interim Study Area. The cost estimate also takes into consideration other
factors including costs for addressing basements and crawl spaces without any existing concrete
floor, as well as larger multi-unit structures that would require more depressurization points than
smaller structures. The cost estimate also reflects one year of estimated costs for operation and
maintenance (O&M) of sub-slab depressurization systems to ensure the systems are operating
properly for the estimated 100 properties. The sampling and mitigation is expected to occur on a
rolling basis over a period of five years. If it is determined that a property requires a sub-slab
depressurization system, EPA will work with the owner to arrange for the installation of the
system. Construction can be completed in as little as one to two days, and it can take up to one
week or longer for the installation of larger commercial systems. The construction time for each
alternative reflects only the actual time required to construct or implement the action and does

                                                 15
not include the time required to design the remedy, negotiate the performance of the remedy with
any potentially responsible parties, or procure the contracts and funding for design and
construction.

The specific details and cost of the mitigation measures for any particular structure would be
determined during remedial design (Table 7).

Total Capital Cost:      $   1,124,000
Total O&M:                   $21,200
Total Present Net Worth:     $1,145,200
Construction Timeframe:      5 years

SUMMARY OF COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES

In selecting a remedy, EPA considered the factors set out in CERCLA Section 121, 42 U.S.C. §
9621, conducting a detailed analysis of the viable remedial alternatives pursuant to the NCP, 40
CFR § 300.430(e)(9), EPA’s Guidance for Conducting Remedial Investigations and Feasibility
Studies under CERCLA (OSWER Directive 9355.3-01) and EPA’s A Guide to Preparing
Superfund Proposed Plans, Records of Decision, and Other Remedy Selection Decision
Documents, OSWER 9200.1-23.P. The detailed analysis consisted of an assessment of the
individual alternatives against each of nine evaluation criteria and a comparative analysis
focusing upon the relative performance of each alternative against those criteria.

The first two criteria are known as “threshold criteria” because they are the minimum
requirements that each response measure must meet in order to be eligible for selection as a
remedy:

1.     Overall protection of human health and the environment addresses whether or not a
       remedy provides adequate protection and describes how risks posed through each
       exposure pathway (based on a reasonable maximum exposure scenario) are eliminated,
       reduced, or controlled through treatment, engineering controls, or institutional controls.

2.     Compliance with ARARs addresses whether or not a remedy would meet all of the
       applicable (legally enforceable), or relevant and appropriate (requirements that pertain to
       situations sufficiently similar to those encountered at a Superfund site such that their use
       is well suited to the site) requirements of federal and state environmental statutes and
       requirements or provide grounds for invoking a waiver. Other federal or state advisories,
       criteria, or guidance may be identified by EPA as “to be considered”, or “TBCs”. While
       TBCs are not required to be adhered to under the NCP, they may be useful in determining
       what is protective or how to carry out certain actions or requirements.

The following “primary balancing” criteria are used to make comparisons and to identify the
major trade-offs between alternatives:

3.     Long-term effectiveness and permanence refers to the ability of a remedy to maintain
       reliable protection of human health and the environment over time, once cleanup goals
       have been met. It also addresses the magnitude, effectiveness and reliability of the
                                                16
       measures that may be required to manage the risk posed by treatment residuals and/or
       untreated wastes.

4.     Reduction of toxicity, mobility, or volume via treatment refers to a remedial technology’s
       expected ability to reduce the toxicity, mobility, or volume of hazardous substances,
       pollutants or contaminants at the site through treatment.

5.     Short-term effectiveness addresses the period of time needed to achieve protection and
       any adverse impacts on human health and the environment that may be posed to workers,
       the community and the environment during the construction and implementation periods
       until cleanup goals are achieved.

6.     Implementability refers to the technical and administrative feasibility of a remedy, from
       design through construction and operation, including the availability of materials and
       services needed, administrative feasibility, and coordination with other governmental
       entities.

7.     Cost includes estimated capital and operation and maintenance costs, and the net present-
       worth costs calculated using a 7% discount rate [per current guidance].

The following "modifying" criteria are considered fully after the formal public comment period
on the Proposed Plan is complete:

8.     State acceptance indicates whether, based on its review of the RI/FS and the Proposed
       Plan, the State supports, opposes, and/or has identified any reservations with the
       preferred alternative.

9.     Community acceptance refers to the public’s general response to the alternatives
       described in the Proposed Plan and the RI/FS reports. Factors of community acceptance
       to be discussed include support, reservation, and opposition by the community.

A comparative analysis of the remedial alternatives based upon the evaluation criteria noted
above follows.

      Overall Protection of Human Health and the Environment

Alternative 1 (No Action) would not meet the RAOs and would not be protective of human
health and the environment since no action would be taken.

Alternative 2 (Vapor Intrusion Mitigation) would control exposure to Site-related contaminants
from subsurface vapor intrusion into residential and non-residential structures. Contaminated
sub-slab vapor would be prevented from entering and/or accumulating in buildings at
concentrations that represent a potential threat to human health. Therefore, when implemented at
impacted buildings, Alternative 2 would be protective of human health and the environment.
RAOs would be met immediately after implementation of the mitigative measures at any
particular structure.

                                               17
      Compliance with ARARs

In accordance with the NCP (40 CFR § 300.430(f)(l)(ii)(c)(l)), interim actions such as this are
not required to comply with ARARs as long as the final remedial action at the Site will attain
them. Consequently, no ARARs have been identified for this interim action.

      Long-Term Effectiveness and Permanence

Alternative 1 would involve no active remedial measures and, therefore, would not be effective
in eliminating the potential exposure to contaminants. Alternative 2 would be effective in the
long term. Previously installed vapor mitigation systems at other structures in the area have
demonstrated effectiveness in addressing vapor intrusion concerns. Long-term effectiveness of
the vapor intrusion mitigation systems would be provided by establishing and implementing
O&M procedures to ensure that the systems continue to mitigate the potential threat to human
health posed by vapor intrusion at impacted structures at the Site.

      Reduction in Toxicity, Mobility, or Volume via Treatment

Alternatives 1 and 2 would provide no reduction in toxicity, mobility, or volume. However,
under Alternative 2, Site-related contaminants in vapor form would be prevented from entering
into buildings at concentrations that represent a potential threat to human health.

      Short-term Effectiveness

Alternative 1 does not involve any active construction activities that could present a risk to
workers or the public.

Implementation of Alternative 2 would not be expected to result in short-term risks to the
community, the workers installing the vapor intrusion mitigation systems, or the environment in
general. Any potential threats to the workers from inhaling hazardous substances in vapor form
during system installation would be minimized with the implementation of appropriate health
and safety measures.

As for short term impacts, no time is required for construction of Alternative 1. Under
Alternative 2, the installation of sub-slab depressurization systems can be completed in as little
as one to two days and it can take up to one week for the installation of larger commercial
systems. While, for planning purposes, it is estimated that Alternative 2 may take up to five years
to install the estimated 100 systems to address vapor intrusion concerns within the Study Area,
this would not, however, be a continuous five years of effort. Rather, the installations would
happen as the need is determined through the ongoing OU1 RI/FS process.

      Implementability

Alternative 1 does not involve the application of any technology, therefore, there are no issues
relating to feasibility of implementation.


                                                 18
Alternative 2 is considered to be readily implementable. The installation of vapor mitigation
systems under Alternative 2 would use readily available services and equipment. Such systems
have already been installed at other buildings in the area and have shown to be reliable and
effective in addressing vapor intrusion and mitigating exposures.

      Cost

There is no cost associated with Alternative 1 because no activities are implemented. The
estimated cost of Alternative 2 was developed as a range of costs because the total number of
residential versus non-residential buildings that require vapor mitigation is not currently known.
In addition, the actual costs could vary depending on the particular building and would be
determined during design. The estimated total cost includes capital costs and O&M costs for one
year to ensure the system is operating properly. After one year, O&M of the vapor mitigation
system is turned over to the State.

Note that Alternative 2 provides for the potentiality of designing, installing, and maintaining
vapor mitigation systems, but it does not address the electricity costs to operate the vapor
mitigation system. The operating costs for these systems are minimal, similar to costs to operate
radon mitigation systems, and they would be the responsibility of the property owner. The
estimated total cost for Alternative 2 is $1,145,200.

      State Acceptance

The State of New York concurs with the selected remedy.

      Community Acceptance

Based upon the comments received during on the Proposed Plan, the community is generally
accepting of the EPA’s preferred alternative. Several comments and questions related to the
RALs and increasing participation in the sampling program were raised both during the public
meeting to discuss the proposed plan and in writing during the public comment period. These
comments are addressed in Appendix V, Responsiveness Summary.

PRINCIPAL THREAT WASTE

The NCP establishes an expectation that the EPA will use treatment to address the principal
threats posed by a site whenever practicable (NCP Section 300.430(a)(1)(iii)(A)). The “principal
threat” concept is applied to the characterization of “source materials” at a Superfund site. A
source material is material that includes or contains hazardous substances, pollutants, or
contaminants that act as a reservoir for the migration of contamination to groundwater, surface
water, or air, or act as a source for direct exposure. Principal threat wastes are those source
materials considered to be highly toxic or highly mobile that generally cannot be reliably
contained or would present a significant risk to human health or the environment in the event that
exposure should occur. The decision to treat these wastes is made on a site-specific basis through
a detailed analysis of alternatives, using the remedy selection criteria described above. The


                                                19
manner in which principal threat wastes are addressed provides a basis for making a statutory
finding that the remedy employs treatment as a principal element.

This response action does not address source materials constituting principal threat wastes
because no such materials are part of this operable unit. The interim action that is being
evaluated in this Record of Decision solely addresses vapor intrusion of contaminants into
structures from subsurface sources of contamination. Soil vapor is neither a source material nor a
principal threat waste.

SELECTED REMEDY

Based upon considerations of the results of the RI/FS, the requirements of CERCLA, the detailed
analyses of the response measures and public comments, EPA has determined that Alternative 2
is the appropriate remedy for the OU2 at the Site because it best satisfies the requirements of
CERCLA Section 121, 42 U.S.C. §9621, and the NCP’s nine evaluation criteria for remedial
alternatives, 40 CFR §300.430(e)(9).

Description of the Selected Remedy

The major components of the selected remedy include the following:

   -   Vapor intrusion mitigation at residential and non-residential structures where multiple lines
       of evidence indicate that subsurface vapor intrusion is occurring, or has potential to occur,
       at concentrations that represent a threat, or potential threat, to human health. The vapor
       mitigation strategy to be used has the following key components, some or all of which may
       be used at any particular property:

           o Installation of a sub-slab depressurization system.

           o Preventative engineering measures such as the sealing of cracks and gaps in the
             lowest level of a structure and installing a concrete slab or comparable membrane
             system in instances where only a dirt floor is present.

   -   The operation and maintenance of the vapor mitigation measures for one year, after which
       responsibility for operation and maintenance will be turned over to NYSDEC.

The estimated present-worth cost of the selected remedy is $1,145,200.

Summary of the Rationale for the Selected Remedy

Based upon the information currently available, EPA believes that the selected remedy meets the
threshold criteria to protect human health and the environment by preventing COCs from
entering indoor air at levels that pose an unacceptable risk. The exact number of residential
properties to be remediated will be determined upon completion of additional vapor intrusion
sampling during the ongoing OU1 RI/FS. Based upon the information currently available, EPA
believes that the selected remedy meets the threshold criteria and provides the best balance of
tradeoffs compared to the other alternative with respect to the balancing and modifying criteria
                                                20
set forth in the NCP. The selected remedy is considered protective of human health and the
environment in the short-term until a final remedy is implemented for the Site. Although this
interim action is not intended to address fully the statutory mandates, the selected remedy, if
implemented, would satisfy the statutory requirements of CERCLA Section 121(b), namely
being (1) protective of human health and the environment and (2) cost effective. EPA expects the
final remedy for the Site will fully satisfy the statutory requirements. The selected remedy would
be readily implementable using technologies proven to be effective at this Site, as well as similar
sites. The short-term effects of the selected remedy include potential impacts to workers, but
these could be mitigated using appropriate health and safety measures.

Expected Outcomes of the Selected Remedy

The selected remedy will meet the RAOs because it would control exposure to Site-related
contaminants from vapor intrusion into residential and non-residential structures and
contaminated sub-slab vapor would be prevented from entering and/or accumulating in buildings
at concentrations that represent a potential threat to human health.

Green Remediation

EPA Region 2 Clean and Green Policy4 (Policy) provides guidance for the implementation of
green remediation for response actions in the region. The goal of the Policy is to enhance the
environmental benefits of federal cleanup programs by promoting technologies and practices that
are sustainable, while complying with all applicable laws and regulations. The objectives of
green remediation are to: protect human health and the environment by achieving remedial
action goals; support human and ecological use and reuse of remediated land; minimize impacts
to water quality and water resources; reduce air emissions and greenhouse gas production;
minimize material use and waste production; and conserve natural resources and energy.

This Policy establishes touchstone practices that are both quantifiable and reportable. The region
uses reporting requirements in enforcement instruments, grants, and contracts to collect and
report metrics annually. Examples of touchstone practices that may be used during the
implementation of the selected remedy are:

          Use of renewable energy, and energy conservation and efficiency approaches including
           EnergyStar equipment
          Cleaner fuels and clean diesel technologies and strategies
          Water conservation and efficiency approaches including WaterSense products
          Sustainable site design
          Industrial material reuse or recycling within regulatory requirements
          Recycling applications for materials generated at or removed from the site
          Environmentally Preferable Purchasing
          Greenhouse gas emission reduction technologies



4
    See http://www.epa.gov/greenercleanups/epa-region-2cleanand-green-policy
                                                        21
Green remediation techniques, as detailed in NYSDEC’s Green Remediation Program Policy-
DER-31,5 will also be considered during the implementation of the selected remedy to reduce
short-term environmental impacts.

STATUTORY DETERMINATIONS

As previously noted, CERCLA Section 121(b)(1), 42 U.S.C. § 9621(b)(1), mandates that a
remedial action must be protective of human health and the environment, cost effective, and
utilize permanent solutions and alternative treatment technologies or resource recovery
technologies to the maximum extent practicable. Section 121(b)(1) also establishes a preference
for remedial actions which employ treatment to permanently and significantly reduce the
volume, toxicity, or mobility of the hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants at a site.
CERCLA Section 121(d), 42 U.S.C. § 9621(d), further specifies that a remedial action must
attain a degree of cleanup that satisfies ARARs under federal and state laws, unless a waiver can
be justified pursuant to CERCLA Section 121(d)(4), 42 U.S.C. § 9621(d)(4).

For the reasons discussed below, EPA has determined that the selected interim remedy meets the
requirements of CERCLA Section 121, 42 U.S.C. §9621.

Protection of Human Health and the Environment

It is expected that the selected remedy will be protective of human health and the environment.
Protection of human health will be achieved by mitigation actions including sealing cracks and
gaps in the slab, installing a concrete slab or comparable membrane system in instances where
only a dirt floor is present, and installing active sub-slab depressurization systems at structures
where EPA has determined that vapor intrusion is occurring, or has the potential to occur, at
concentrations that represent a potential threat to human health. The mitigation actions will
prevent contaminants in vapor form from migrating from the subsurface into indoor air at
concentrations that represent a threat to human health.

Compliance with ARARs

In accordance with the NCP (40 CFR § 300.430(f)(l)(ii)(C)(l)), interim response actions such as
this action are not required to comply with ARARs as long as the final remedial action at the Site
will attain them. Consequently, we have not identified any ARARs that must be attained for this
interim action.

Cost-Effectiveness

A cost-effective remedy is one in which costs are proportional to its overall effectiveness (40
CFR § 300.430(f)(1)(ii)(D)). Overall effectiveness is based on the evaluations of long-term
effectiveness and permanence, reduction in toxicity, mobility, and volume through treatment,
and short-term effectiveness. Overall effectiveness was evaluated by assessing three of the five
balancing criteria in combination (long-term effectiveness and permanence; reduction in toxicity,


5
    http://www.dec.ny.gov/docs/remediation_hudson_pdf/der31. pdf
                                                       22
mobility, and volume through treatment; and short-term effectiveness). Overall effectiveness was
then compared to costs to determine cost-effectiveness.

Each of the alternatives underwent a detailed cost analysis. In that analysis, capital and operation
and maintenance costs were estimated and used to develop present-worth costs. In the present-
worth cost analysis, operation and maintenance costs were calculated for the estimated life of
each alternative. The total estimated present worth cost for implementing the selected remedy is
$1,145,200.

Based on the comparison of overall effectiveness to cost, the selected remedy meets the statutory
requirement that Superfund remedies be cost effective (40 CFR § 300.430(f)(1)(ii)(D)) in that it
represents reasonable value for the money to be spent. A five-year timeframe was used for
planning and estimating purposes to mitigate vapor intrusion, although mitigation timeframes
could exceed this estimate.

Utilization of Permanent Solutions and Alternative Treatment Technologies to the
Maximum Extent Practicable

The selected remedy is an interim action and is not intended to be a permanent solution. The
remedy uses alternative treatment (or resource recovery) technologies to the maximum extent
practicable. Based on the findings of the OU1 RI/FS, future remedial actions are expected to
address the contaminated groundwater, which will address the underlying cause of vapor
intrusion into structures at OU2 of the Site.

Preference for Treatment as a Principal Element

The selected remedy does not meet the statutory preference for remedies that employ treatment
as a principal element because vapor mitigation technologies do not treat the subsurface vapors,
and treatment of groundwater and/or soil gas is outside the scope of this OU2 interim action.

Five-Year Review Requirements

A review of the remedial action pursuant to CERCLA Section 121(c), 42 U.S.C. §9621(c), will
be conducted five years after the commencement of the remedial action to ensure that the remedy
continues to provide adequate protection to human health and the environment because this
remedy will result in hazardous substances remaining on-Site above health-based levels that
allow for unlimited use and unrestricted exposure. Five-year reviews will continue until a final
remedy is selected, at which point, the five-year review requirement will be re-evaluated.

DOCUMENTATION OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGES

The Proposed Plan for OU2 of the Site was released on April 5, 2024. The Proposed Plan
identified Alternative 2 as the preferred alternative for addressing vapor intrusion and solicited
public comment. EPA reviewed all written (including electronic formats such as e-mail) and
verbal comments received during the public comment period and has determined that no
significant changes to the remedy, as originally proposed in the Proposed Plan, are necessary or
appropriate.
                                                 23
The following issues/concerns have been clarified in this Record of Decision from what was
presented in the Proposed Plan:

      Whether to apply the residential RAL or Commercial/Industrial RAL will be determined
       on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with NYSDEC and NYSDOH. In general, EPA
       understands that many properties that are zoned for non-residential use may be used,
       either regularly or from time-to-time, in what would be more consistent with residential
       exposure assumptions. The residential RALs may be used at any property, residential or
       non-residential, if there is any reason to believe the commercial/industrial RALs are not
       sufficiently conservative, either under current or reasonably anticipated future use
       scenarios.

      If additional contaminants of concern are identified during the ongoing OU1 RI/FS that
       may adversely affect indoor air, EPA’s VISLs and NYSDOH guidance will be reviewed
       and, if warranted, appropriate mitigative actions will be taken.




                                               24
APPENDIX I

 FIGURES
APPENDIX II

 TABLES
                                                                    Table 1
                                                    Summary of Contaminants of Concern and
                                                  Medium-Specific Exposure Point Concentrations
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future Resident
Medium: Groundwater
Exposure Medium: Indoor Air or Sub-slab
   Sampling        Property        Exposure             Contaminant of      Concentration Concentration Exposure Point Exposure Point   Statistical
  Timeframe        Identifier        Point                 Concern            Detected        Units     Concentration Concentration     Measure
                                                                                                                           Units
                                                                             Min    Max
                                              Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      NA      170     μg/m³           170           μg/m³        Maximum
                                     Indoor Air
                                              Trichloroethylene (TCE)        NA       12     μg/m³            12           μg/m³        Maximum
                     P001
                                              Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      NA     4,200    μg/m³          4,200          μg/m³        Maximum
                                    Sub-Slab
   2008/2009                                  Trichloroethylene (TCE)        NA      300     μg/m³           300           μg/m³        Maximum
Heating Season                                Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      NA       20     μg/m³            20           μg/m³        Maximum
                                   Indoor Air
                                              Trichloroethylene (TCE)        NA      2.8     μg/m³           2.8           μg/m³        Maximum
                     P002
                                              Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      NA     1,400    μg/m³          1,400          μg/m³        Maximum
                                    Sub-Slab
                                              Trichloroethylene (TCE)        NA      120     μg/m³           120           μg/m³        Maximum
                                              Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      NA       48     μg/m³            48           μg/m³        Maximum
                     P001          Indoor Air
   2009/2010                                  Trichloroethylene (TCE)        NA      3.1     μg/m³           3.1           μg/m³        Maximum
Heating Season                                Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      NA       37     μg/m³            37           μg/m³        Maximum
                     P002          Indoor Air
                                              Trichloroethylene (TCE)        NA      1.8     μg/m³           1.8           μg/m³        Maximum
 2022 Heating        P005          Indoor Air Trichloroethylene (TCE)        NA     0.549    μg/m³          0.549          μg/m³        Maximum
    Season           P006           Sub-Slab  Trichloroethylene (TCE)        NA       18     μg/m³            18           μg/m³        Maximum
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future Commercial Worker
Medium: Groundwater
Exposure Medium: Indoor Air or Sub-slab
   Sampling        Property        Exposure          Contaminant of         Concentration Concentration Exposure Point Exposure Point Statistical
  Timeframe        Identifier         Point              Concern              Detected        Units     Concentration Concentration Measure
                                                                                                                           Units
                                                                             Min    Max
  2020/2021                          Indoor Air   Trichloroethylene (TCE)    NA      7.1     μg/m³           7.1           μg/m³      Maximum
                       P003
Heating Season                        Sub-Slab    Trichloroethylene (TCE)    NA    29,000    μg/m³         29,000          μg/m³      Maximum

Notes:
 μg/m³ = microgram per cubic meter
 NA= not applicable/available
                                                                            Table 2
                                                               Selection of Exposure Pathways
  Scenario       Medium       Exposure     Exposure           Receptor          Receptor    Exposure      Type of                 Rationale for Selection or
 Timeframe                     Medium       Point            Population           Age        Route        Analysis              Exclusion of Exposure Pathway


                                                                                                                      Residents could be exposed to contaminants in
                              Sub-slab     Sub-slab                                                                   indoor air via migration from sub-slab soil gas. The
                                                                                Child and                             investigation of chemical vapors that may be
                                                             Residents                      Inhalation   Quantitative
                                                                                 Adult                                entering residential homes from contaminated
                              Indoor Air   Indoor Air                                                                 groundwater below the structures associated with
                                                                                                                      Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site are ongoing.
Current/ Future Groundwater
                                                                                                                      Commercial/industrial workers could be exposed to
                              Sub-slab     Sub-slab                                                                   contaminants in indoor air via migration from sub-
                                                                                                                      slab soil gas. The investigation of chemical vapors
                                                        Commercial/Industrial
                                                                                 Adult      Inhalation   Quantitative that may be entering commercial buildings from
                                                             Worker
                                                                                                                      contaminated groundwater below the structures
                              Indoor Air   Indoor Air                                                                 associated with Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund
                                                                                                                      Site are ongoing.
                                                               Table 3
                                                   Non-Cancer Toxicity Data Summary
Pathway: Inhalation
      Contaminant             Chronic/      Inhalation Inhalation             Primary                    Combined            Sources      Dates of RfC
       of Concern            Subchronic        RfC     RfC Units            Target Organ                Uncertainty       of RfC Target
                                                                                                        /Modifying            Organ
                                                                                                          Factors
                                                                     Neurotoxicity (reaction time,
                                                                    cognitive effects, color vision)
Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      Chronic         0.04      mg/m³                                              1000              IRIS         2/10/2012
                                                                      in occupationally- exposed
                                                                                 adults
                                                                                                       Multiple (listed
                                               0.002     mg/m³         Multiple (listed below)
                                                                                                          below)
                                                                     Decreased thymus weight in
 Trichloroethylene (TCE)       Chronic        0.0019     mg/m³                                               100              IRIS         9/28/2011
                                                                                mice
                                                                        Increased fetal heart
                                              0.0021     mg/m³                                               10
                                                                       malformations in rats

Notes:
 IRIS = EPA's Integrated Risk Information System
 mg/m³ = milligram per meter cubed
 RfC = reference concentration
                                                   Table 4
                                        Cancer Toxicity Data Summary
Pathway: Inhalation
    Contaminant of             Inhalation Unit Risk           Units      Weight of      Mutagen    Source        Date
       Concern                                                           Evidence/       (Y/N)
                                                                          Cancer
                                                                         Guideline
                                                                       Likely to be
  Tetrachloroethylene
                                     2.6 × 10-7             (μg/m³)-1 carcinogenic to     N          IRIS     2/10/2012
        (PCE)
                                                                          humans

                                                                        Carcinogenic
Trichloroethylene (TCE)              4.1 x 10-6             (μg/m³)-1                     Y*         IRIS     9/28/2011
                                                                         to humans


Notes:
 IRIS = EPA's Integrated Risk Information System (https://www.epa.gov/iris)
 (μg/m³)-1 = per micrograms per cubic meter
 * EPA has concluded that TCE is carcinogenic by a mutagenic mode of action (i.e, it is a mutagen). Application of age-
dependent adjustment factors (ADAFs) to the inhalation unit risk was done to account for early life susceptibility
                                                                        Table 5
                                                   Risk Characterization Summary - Non-Carcinogens
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P001 (Residential)
   Medium           Sampling        Exposure     Exposure       Contaminant of Concern      Primary target Organ             Non-Carcinogenic Hazard Quotient
                  Timeframe          Medium       Point                                                               Ingestion Inhalation Dermal       Exposure
                                                                                                                                                       Routes Total
 Groundwater      2008/2009       Indoor Air     Indoor Air   Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)   Nervous system, Ocular          --         4          --          4
                Heating Season                                Trichloroethylene (TCE)     Developmental, Immune           --         6          --          6
                                                                                                                   Indoor Air Hazard Index (HI) Total=     10
                                                                                                                                  Nervous System HI=        4
                                                                                                                                           Ocular HI=       4
                                                                                                                                   Developmental HI=        6
                                                                                                                                  Immune System HI=         6
                                   Sub-slab      Sub-slab     Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)   Nervous system, Ocular          --         3          --          3
                                                              Trichloroethylene (TCE)     Developmental, Immune           --         4          --          4
                                                                                                                     Sub-slab Hazard Index (HI) Total=      7
                                                                                                                                  Nervous System HI=        3
                                                                                                                                           Ocular HI=       3
                                                                                                                                   Developmental HI=        4
                                                                                                                                  Immune System HI=         4
                  2009/2010       Indoor Air     Indoor Air   Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)   Nervous system, Ocular          --         1          --          1
                Heating Season                                Trichloroethylene (TCE)     Developmental, Immune           --        1.5         --         1.5
                                                                                                                   Indoor Air Hazard Index (HI) Total=     2.5
                                                                                                                                  Nervous System HI=        1
                                                                                                                                           Ocular HI=       1
                                                                                                                                   Developmental HI=        2
                                                                                                                                  Immune System HI=         2
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P002 (Residential)
   Medium           Sampling        Exposure     Exposure       Contaminant of Concern      Primary target Organ             Non-Carcinogenic Hazard Quotient
                  Timeframe          Medium       Point                                                               Ingestion Inhalation Dermal       Exposure
                                                                                                                                                       Routes Total
 Groundwater      2008/2009       Indoor Air     Indoor Air   Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)   Nervous system, Ocular          --        0.5         --         0.5
                Heating Season                                Trichloroethylene (TCE)     Developmental, Immune           --         1          --          1
                                                                                                                   Indoor Air Hazard Index (HI) Total=     1.5
                                                                                                                                  Nervous System HI=       0.5
                                                                                                                                           Ocular HI=      0.5
                                                                                                                                   Developmental HI=        1
                                                                                                                                  Immune System HI=         1
                                   Sub-slab      Sub-slab     Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)   Nervous system, Ocular          --         1          --          1
                                                              Trichloroethylene (TCE)     Developmental, Immune           --         2          --          2
                                                                                                                     Sub-slab Hazard Index (HI) Total=      3
                                                                                                                                  Nervous System HI=        1
                                                                                                                                           Ocular HI=       1
                                                                                                                                   Developmental HI=        2
                                                                                                                                  Immune System HI=         2
                  2009/2010       Indoor Air     Indoor Air   Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)   Nervous system, Ocular          --        0.9         --         0.9
                Heating Season                                Trichloroethylene (TCE)     Developmental, Immune           --        0.9         --         0.9
                                                                                                                   Indoor Air Hazard Index (HI) Total=     1.8
                                                                                                                                  Nervous System HI=       0.9
                                                                                                                                           Ocular HI=      0.9
                                                                                                                                   Developmental HI=       0.9
                                                                                                                                  Immune System HI=        0.9
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Commercial Worker (adult)
Property Identifier: P003 (Commercial)
   Medium           Sampling       Exposure      Exposure       Contaminant of Concern      Primary target Organ          Non-Carcinogenic Hazard Quotient
                  Timeframe        Medium         Point                                                            Ingestion Inhalation Dermal       Exposure
                                                                                                                                                    Routes Total
 Groundwater      2020/2021       Indoor Air     Indoor Air   Trichloroethylene (TCE)     Developmental, Immune        --        0.8         --         0.8
                Heating Season                                                                                  Indoor Air Hazard Index (HI) Total=     0.8
                                                                                                                                Developmental HI=       0.8
                                                                                                                               Immune System HI=        0.8
                                   Sub-slab      Sub-slab     Trichloroethylene (TCE)     Developmental, Immune        --        99          --         99
                                                                                                                  Sub-slab Hazard Index (HI) Total=     99
                                                                                                                                Developmental HI=       99
                                                                                                                               Immune System HI=        99
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P005 (Residential)
   Medium          Sampling         Exposure     Exposure       Contaminant of Concern      Primary target Organ           Non-Carcinogenic Hazard Quotient




                                                                            Page 5 of 9
                   Timeframe          Medium            Point                                                               Ingestion Inhalation Dermal      Exposure
                                                                                                                                                            Routes Total
 Groundwater      2022 Heating       Indoor Air      Indoor Air   Trichloroethylene (TCE)         Developmental, Immune        --        0.3         --         0.3
                     Season                                                                                             Indoor Air Hazard Index (HI) Total=     0.3
                                                                                                                                        Developmental HI=       0.3
                                                                                                                                       Immune System HI=        0.3
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P006 (Residential)
   Medium           Sampling        Exposure         Exposure        Contaminant of Concern         Primary target Organ           Non-Carcinogenic Hazard Quotient
                  Timeframe          Medium           Point                                                                 Ingestion Inhalation Dermal       Exposure
                                                                                                                                                             Routes Total
 Groundwater      2022 Heating        Sub-slab        Sub-slab    Trichloroethylene (TCE)         Developmental, Immune         --        0.3         --         0.3
                     Season                                                                                                Sub-Slab Hazard Index (HI) Total=     0.3
                                                                                                                                         Developmental HI=       0.3
                                                                                                                                        Immune System HI=        0.3

Bolded cells indicate noncancer risk estimates exceedances (HI>1) associated with indoor air or sub-slab exposure
Shaded cells indicate exceedances of the noncancer hazard threshold of 1 for indoor air




                                                                                  Page 6 of 9
                                                              Table 6
                                           Risk Characterization Summary - Carcinogens
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P001 (Residential)
  Medium       Sampling      Exposure       Exposure       Contaminant of Concern                      Carcinogenic Risk
              Timeframe       Medium         Point                                   Ingestion   Inhalation Dermal Exposure Routes
                                                                                                                           Total
Groundwater    2008/2009         Air       Indoor Air    Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      --        1.57E-05        --     1.57E-05
                Heating                                  Trichloroethylene (TCE)        --        2.51E-05        --     2.51E-05
                Season                                                                           Indoor Air Cancer Risk=  4.1E-05
                                            Sub-slab     Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      --        1.17E-05        --     1.17E-05
                                                         Trichloroethylene (TCE)        --        1.88E-05        --     1.88E-05
                                                                                                   Sub-slab Cancer Risk=  3.1E-05
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P001 (Residential)
  Medium       Sampling      Exposure       Exposure       Contaminant of Concern                      Carcinogenic Risk
              Timeframe       Medium         Point                                   Ingestion   Inhalation Dermal Exposure Routes
                                                                                                                           Total
Groundwater    2009/2010         Air        Indoor Air   Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      --        4.44E-06        --     4.44E-06
                 Heating                                 Trichloroethylene (TCE)        --        6.48E-06        --     6.48E-06
                 Season                                                                          Indoor Air Cancer Risk=  1.1E-05
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P002 (Residential)
  Medium       Sampling      Exposure       Exposure       Contaminant of Concern                      Carcinogenic Risk
              Timeframe       Medium          Point                                  Ingestion   Inhalation Dermal Exposure Routes
                                                                                                                           Total
Groundwater    2008/2009         Air       Indoor Air    Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      --        1.85E-06        --     1.85E-06
                Heating                                  Trichloroethylene (TCE)        --        5.85E-06        --     5.85E-06
                Season                                                                           Indoor Air Cancer Risk=  7.7E-06
                                            Sub-slab     Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      --        3.89E-06        --     3.89E-06
                                                         Trichloroethylene (TCE)        --        7.53E-06        --     7.53E-06
                                                                                                   Sub-slab Cancer Risk=  1.1E-05
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P002 (Residential)
  Medium       Sampling      Exposure       Exposure       Contaminant of Concern                      Carcinogenic Risk
              Timeframe       Medium         Point                                   Ingestion   Inhalation Dermal Exposure Routes
                                                                                                                           Total
Groundwater    2009/2010       Air       Indoor Air      Tetrachloroethylene (PCE)      --        3.43E-06        --     3.43E-06
                 Heating                                 Trichloroethylene (TCE)        --        3.76E-06        --     3.76E-06
                 Season                                                                          Indoor Air Cancer Risk=  7.2E-06
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Commercial Worker (adult)
Property Identifier: P003 (Commerciall)
  Medium       Sampling      Exposure    Exposure          Contaminant of Concern                      Carcinogenic Risk
              Timeframe      Medium        Point                                     Ingestion   Inhalation Dermal Exposure Routes
                                                                                                                           Total
Groundwater    2020/2021         Air       Indoor Air    Trichloroethylene (TCE)        --        2.37E-06        --     2.37E-06
                Heating                                                                          Indoor Air Cancer Risk=  2.4E-06
                Season                      Sub-slab     Trichloroethylene (TCE)        --        2.91E-04        --     2.91E-04
                                                                                                   Sub-slab Cancer Risk= 2.9E-04
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P005 (Residential)
  Medium       Sampling      Exposure       Exposure       Contaminant of Concern                     Carcinogenic Risk
              Timeframe       Medium         Point                                   Ingestion   Inhalation Dermal Exposure Routes
                                                                                                                        Total



                                                                  Page 7 of 9
Groundwater 2022 Heating         Air        Indoor Air     Trichloroethylene (TCE)               --       1.15E-06        --       1.15E-06
                 Season                                                                                  Indoor Air Cancer Risk=    1.2E-06
Scenario Timeframe: Current/Future
Receptor Population: Resident (adult/child)
Property Identifier: P006 (Residential)
  Medium       Sampling      Exposure       Exposure         Contaminant of Concern                            Carcinogenic Risk
              Timeframe       Medium          Point                                          Ingestion   Inhalation Dermal Exposure Routes
                                                                                                                                   Total
Groundwater 2022 Heating           Air         Sub-slab    Trichloroethylene (TCE)               --       1.13E-06       --      1.13E-06
               Season                                                                                     Sub-Slab Cancer Risk=   1.1E-06

Bolded cells indicate cancer risk estimate exceedances (cancer risk>10-4) associated with indoor air or sub-slab exposure




                                                                     Page 8 of 9
                                             Table 7
                                           Cost Estimate

                   Description                    Quantity       Unit     Unit Cost         Cost
Construction Activities
Vapor Intrusion Sampling, Testing and
Analysis                                                     2   Events      $52,500         $105,000
Professional and Technical Services
Remedial Design                                              1    LS         $10,000          $10,000
Project and Construction Management                          1    LS         $15,000          $15,000
Vapor Intrusion Mitigation Systems
Residential Installations                                100    EA           $7,215          $721,500
                                                             Capital Costs Subtotal          $851,500
                                        10% Legal, Administrative, Engineering Fees           $85,200
                                                                20% Contingencies            $187,300
                                                                Capital Cost Total         $1,124,000

Annual O&M Costs
Average Annual O&M                                         10     EA          $1,608          $16,100

                                                              Annual Cost Subtotal            $16,100
                                        10% Legal, Administrative, Engineering Fees            $1,600
                                                                20% Contingencies              $3,500
                                                                Annual Cost Total             $21,200

                                                                          Total Cost       $1,145,200

Note: Costs included in this estimate were obtained from EPA personnel experienced with vapor intrusion
projects, mitigation system installations, and maintenance of those systems.

Key:
EA = Each
LS = Lump Sum
        APPENDIX III

ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD INDEX
                                                         ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD INDEX OF DOCUMENTS
                                                                                       FINAL
                                                                                    09/27/2024                                            REGION ID: 02
          Site Name: MEEKER AVENUE PLUME
          CERCLIS ID: NYN000203407
               OUID: 02
                SSID: A29M
              Action:


                                                                    Image
DocID:    Doc Date: Title:                                          Count:           Doc Type:             Addressee Name/Organization:          Author Name/Organization:
701406   09/27/2024 ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD INDEX FOR OU2 FOR THE         3    Administrative Record Index                                  (US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
                    MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                                              AGENCY)



190145   06/01/2015 OSWER TECHNICAL GUIDE FOR ASSESSING AND           267    Laws/Regulations/Guidance
                    MITIGATING THE VAPOR INTRUSION PATHWAY FROM
                    SUBSURFACE VAPOR SOURCES TO INDOOR AIR



543567   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD FOR THE MEEKER           270              Report                                             DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                                                     PROTECTION AGENCY)


543568   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 6 - FOR      604              Report                                             DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)



543569   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCES 7-15 -      316              Report                                             DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    FOR THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                                      PROTECTION AGENCY)


543570   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 16 - FOR     345              Report                                             DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)



543571   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 17 - FOR    1202              Report                                             DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)



543572   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 18 - FOR     730              Report                                             DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)




                                                                                    Page 1 of 3
                                                         ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD INDEX OF DOCUMENTS
                                                                               FINAL
                                                                             09/27/2024                                   REGION ID: 02
          Site Name: MEEKER AVENUE PLUME
          CERCLIS ID: NYN000203407
               OUID: 02
                SSID: A29M
              Action:


                                                                    Image
DocID:    Doc Date: Title:                                          Count:    Doc Type:    Addressee Name/Organization:          Author Name/Organization:
543573   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCES 19-21 -     768      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    FOR THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                      PROTECTION AGENCY)



543574   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 22 - FOR    4483      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)


543575   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 23 - FOR    1466      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)


543576   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 24 - FOR    2992      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)



543577   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 25 - FOR     533      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)



543578   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 26 - FOR    2327      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)



543579   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 27 - FOR    1414      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)



543580   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCE 28 - FOR    1829      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                          PROTECTION AGENCY)




                                                                             Page 2 of 3
                                                          ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD INDEX OF DOCUMENTS
                                                                               FINAL
                                                                             09/27/2024                                   REGION ID: 02
          Site Name: MEEKER AVENUE PLUME
          CERCLIS ID: NYN000203407
               OUID: 02
                SSID: A29M
              Action:


                                                                    Image
DocID:    Doc Date: Title:                                          Count:    Doc Type:    Addressee Name/Organization:          Author Name/Organization:
543581   09/01/2021 HRS DOCUMENTATION RECORD - REFERENCES 29-30 -    1799      Report                                     DESIR,JAMES (US ENVIRONMENTAL
                    FOR THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                      PROTECTION AGENCY)



718460   02/22/2024 FINAL QUALITY ASSURANCE AND PROJECT PLAN          204    Work Plan                                    (AECOM)
                    ADDENDUM FOR THE VAPOR INTRUSION
                    INVESTIGATION SAMPLING FOR OU2 FOR THE MEEKER
                    AVENUE PLUME SITE

718459   03/31/2024 DRAFT FINAL FOCUSED FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR OU2      60      Report                                     (US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
                    FOR THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SITE                                                                      AGENCY)




701407   04/05/2024 PROPOSED PLAN FOR OU2 FOR THE MEEKER AVENUE        13    Publication                                  (US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
                    PLUME SITE                                                                                            AGENCY)




                                                                             Page 3 of 3
        APPENDIX IV

STATE LETTER OF CONCURRENCE
                                        September 18, 2024


Mr. Pat Evangelista – Director
Superfund and Emergency Management Division
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
290 Broadway, 19th Floor
New York, NY 10007

RE:   Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site
      Operable Unit 2, Kings County, New York
      NYSDEC Site ID No.: 224121


Dear Mr. Evangelista:

       The New York State Departments of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) and
Health (NYSDOH) have reviewed the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s
September 2024, Draft Superfund Record of Decision for the Meeker Avenue Plume
Operable Unit 2 (OU2), Kings County, New York. Based on that review, we understand
that the selected remedy is an interim action to address the potential for exposure via
the soil vapor intrusion pathway while the Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study for
Operable Unit 1 is ongoing, and that this does not constitute the final remedy for the
site.

       Based on the information currently available, NYSDEC agrees that the selected
Alternative 2 of this Superfund Record of Decision meets the threshold criteria and is
protective of human health and the environment. Therefore, the NYSDEC concurs with
the EPA’s selected alternative.

                                        Sincerely,



                                        Andrew O. Guglielmi, Director
                                        Division of Environmental Remediation

ec:   Janet Brown, janet.brown@dec.ny.gov
      Scott Deyette, scott.deyette@dec.ny.gov
      Heide-Marie Dudek, heidi.dudek@dec.ny.gov
      Michael Haggerty, michael.haggerty@dec.ny.gov
      Wendy Kuehner (DOH) wendy.kuehner@health.ny.gov
Scarlett McLaughlin (DOH) sara.bogardus@health.ny.gov
Shaun Surani (DOH, shaun.surani@health.ny.gov
Angela Carpenter (EPA) carpenter.angela@epa.gov
Stephanie Vaughn (EPA) vaughn.stephanie@epa.gov
Rupika Ketu (EPA) Ketu.Rupika@epa.gov
      APPENDIX V

RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY
                         RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY
                        Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site
                                 Operable Unit 2
                               Brooklyn, New York


INTRODUCTION

This Responsiveness Summary provides a summary of the public’s comments and concerns
regarding the Proposed Plan for Operable Unit 2 (OU2) of the Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund
site (site), and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) responses to those
comments. All comments summarized in this document have been considered in EPA’s decision
for the selection of a remedy for OU2 at the site under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA).

This Responsiveness Summary is divided into the following sections:

  I.    BACKGROUND ON COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND CONCERNS

This section provides the history of community involvement and interests regarding the site.

 II.   COMPREHENSIVE SUMMARY OF MAJOR QUESTIONS,
       COMMENTS, CONCERNS, AND RESPONSES

This section contains summaries of written and verbal comments received by EPA at the public
meeting and during the public comment period, and it contains EPA’s responses to these
comments.

The last section of this Responsiveness Summary includes attachments which document public
participation in the remedy selection process for this site. They are as follows:

Attachment A contains the Proposed Plan that was distributed to the public for review and
comment;

Attachment B contains the public notice that was published in the Brooklyn Daily Eagle, on the
Nowy Dziennik website, and via the Greenpointers newsletter on April 5, 2024, and in Abecadlo
on April 12, 2024. It also includes the notice of extension published via the Greenpointers
newsletter on April 12, 2024, in the Brooklyn Daily Eagle and in Abecadlo on April 19. 2024, and
in Nowy Dziennik on April 20, 2024. The notices were published in English, as well as in Spanish
and Polish for the non-English speaking communities within and surrounding the Meeker Avenue
Plume site;

Attachment C contains the public comments received during the public comment period; and
Attachment D contains the transcript of the public meeting held on April 16, 2024 at the St.
Stanislaus Kostka Church, Brooklyn, New York.


I.     BACKGROUND ON COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND CONCERNS

Since the inclusion of the site on the National Priorities List in 2022, public interest in the site
has been high. EPA has strongly encouraged and received public input since the listing of the
site. EPA published a Community Involvement Plan in 2023. This 2023 Community
Involvement Plan outlines specific outreach tools to facilitate transparent and accessible
communication with the community in the decision-making process and to solicit public input on
site activities. EPA also sends out monthly email updates to the community to keep them
informed of ongoing activities at the site.
In 2023, EPA provided Technical Assistance Services for Communities (TASC) support to the
Meeker Avenue Plume Community Advisory Group (CAG) for strategy, engagement, and
outreach. The TASC contract was amended in 2024 to provide the CAG with technical support,
interpretation and translation services, and administrative support on an as-needed basis.
EPA also provides the support of a neutral facilitator to the CAG. The neutral facilitator assisted
in the formation of the CAG, including development of the mission statement, structure, and
operating procedures. The neutral facilitator also assists the CAG in planning and conducting
meetings.
The CAG holds its meetings in the surrounding community and serves in a technical review and
advocacy capacity on behalf of the community. The CAG membership includes representatives
from local businesses, environmental organizations, community residents, and other interested
parties from Brooklyn. The CAG regularly conducts outreach in the community to encourage
public participation in site-related activities and engages social-media outlets to ensure project
information is broadcast widely. In addition, the CAG maintains a webpage and an email list to
disseminate project-related information, including the dates of upcoming meetings and site
updates.


II.    COMPREHENSIVE SUMMARY OF MAJOR QUESTIONS, COMMENTS,
       CONCERNS AND RESPONSES

Comments and/or questions were received at the public meeting, in addition to two written letters
(via email), one from the Meeker Avenue Plume Community Advisory Group (CAG) and one
from Brooklyn Community Board No. 1. North Brooklyn Neighbors, a local environmental group,
also indicated their support for the CAG’s comments via email. In addition, one comment was
received via email during the comment period. Copies of the comment letters and emails are
provided in Attachment A, and a copy of the public meeting transcript is provided in Attachment
D. A summary of the significant comments provided at the public meeting and in writing, as well
as EPA’s responses to those comments, are provided below.
The sign-in sheets indicate that approximately 25 people attended the April 16, 2024 public
meeting. The meetings’ attendees included residents, Community Advisory Group members, local
business representatives, interested community members, journalists, elected officials, and
representatives from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the New
York State Department of Health.

Part 1: Written Comments

A comment letter (via electronic format) was submitted by the Meeker Avenue CAG. The letter
contained several comments, which are summarized below, along with EPA responses. A
representative of North Brooklyn Neighbors sent a separate email reiterating the CAG’s
concerns and expressing general support for the action.

Comment 1: The CAG is concerned that access for testing is being granted at too slow of a rate
and would like to know how EPA intends to improve its success rate at getting access to test
buildings at risk of vapor intrusion within the Study Area. They would like to see new strategies
for outreach, including to non-residential properties.

       EPA Response 1: EPA is actively exploring ways to improve the outreach approach at
       the site. The Community Involvement Plan is being updated and further developed and
       the Region intends to discuss it with the community prior to the next winter heating
       season to explore additional strategies for increasing participation. EPA appreciates the
       CAG’s offer to continue helping with outreach and understands that our mission is to
       protect the community from elevated risks posed by site-related contamination. Cleanup
       efforts at the site are being conducted in an expedited fashion on parallel tracks to (i)
       address the immediate risks posed by vapor intrusion and (ii) determine the full nature
       and extent of contamination at the site so that the sources of the contamination leading to
       vapor intrusion can be addressed. Signature of this ROD will give the Region the ability
       to quickly mitigate any vapor intrusion concerns that are discovered, and the ongoing
       groundwater investigation will help to better focus ongoing outreach efforts on areas
       where vapor intrusion is most likely to occur. The discovery and mitigation of
       unacceptable risks in indoor air at residential and non-residential structures resulting from
       site-related contamination is the Region’s top priority for the site.

Comment 2: The CAG would like clarity on how realistic it would be for EPA to compel testing
in a systematic way.

       EPA Response 2: EPA will consider the need for use of its enforcement authorities at
       every property where access is sought and not granted. EPA has the ability to compel
       access to properties to conduct vapor intrusion sampling and is trying to do so in a
       systematic and balanced manner, taking into consideration our current understanding of
       the nature and extent of contamination at the site, as well as people’s individual rights to
      privacy and autonomy. As mentioned in the response to Comment 1, cleanup efforts at
      the site are being conducted on two tracks. As we gain a better understanding of where
      contamination concentrations are elevated in the subsurface, we can use that information
      to better focus our outreach efforts, including our use of access authorities if determined
      to be appropriate. Other reasons EPA may decide to utilize legal authority to gain access
      include, but are not necessarily limited to, the construction characteristics of a building
      and the presence of sensitive receptors in the building (e.g., day care facilities, schools or
      senior centers). While multiple lines of evidence can and will be used by EPA in making
      determinations about where and when to use our access authorities, it must be noted that
      vapor intrusion issues do not necessarily follow a clear pattern and two adjacent buildings
      can have different results (i.e., one could be found to have a vapor intrusion concern and
      the neighboring building could not). While testing as many properties as possible
      overlying the plume of contamination is ideal, note that vapor intrusion impacts occur on
      a structure-by-structure basis and the lack of testing at any individual property will not
      impact EPA’s ability to mitigate concerns at the neighboring properties, if needed.

Comment 3: The CAG would like to know the number of properties where access was refused.

      EPA Response 3: EPA has been going through a systematic process of reaching out to
      potentially impacted properties within the Study Area. A review of lot and block tax
      maps shows that there are an estimated 943 lots within the preliminary Study Area. Not
      every one of these lots necessarily has a structure, so this would be an outside estimate of
      how many structures are potentially impacted. Lot and block maps also do not tell us how
      many individual units or businesses are potentially impacted (for example, any individual
      lot could have multiple basement and first floor units that require testing). Of these lots,
      we know that prior to EPA’s direct involvement with the site in March 2022, NYSDEC
      had tested 166 buildings and mitigated 26 of them for vapor intrusion impacts. If we very
      conservatively assume that NYSDEC did not reach out to any other properties during
      their time as lead agency for the site from 2007 to 2022 (which is not actually the case),
      then this leaves approximately 700 structures that may or may not have ever been
      contacted by NYSDEC or EPA at the time that the site listed on the National Priorities
      list in March 2022.

      EPA has been working with the City of New York to compile mailing addresses for these
      remaining properties and has sent informational postcards and/or letters to more than 500
      properties since March 2022. EPA has also tried several additional ways to obtain
      voluntary access to these properties, including going door-to-door on multiple occasions,
      making phone calls, participating in public meetings, tabling at a local farmer’s market
      and library, and speaking with local sources of news and information. We have also
      reached out via social media. Several members of the community have assisted with these
      efforts, which EPA greatly appreciates.
       EPA estimates that we have communicated in some direct way (i.e., through mailings,
       door-to-door, meetings, calls, in-person) with occupants and/or owners of approximately
       700 individual properties in or near the preliminary study area since the site was listed in
       2022. Unfortunately, we have gained access to only 40 individual units in 35 structures
       through these efforts to date, plus all 11 buildings of Cooper Park Houses and P.S. 110.
       That said, the vast majority of properties that we have not yet gained access to have not
       denied access – they have simply not granted it yet. The number of outright denials,
       which might be counted as people explicitly saying or writing they would not provide
       access, as well as people that have hung up the phone on us, is relatively small; only
       approximately 25 individuals have fallen into the outright denial category thus far.

Comment 4: The CAG submitted several comments regarding the Remedial Action Levels
(RALs) included in this decision document. In particular, the CAG asked that different (lower)
RALs be considered for use at the site.

       EPA Response 4: The individual comments regarding RALs submitted by the CAG are
       summarized and responded to below. In general, EPA wants to clarify that the RALs are
       only one line of evidence that are being used in determining if mitigation is needed at any
       individual property. As is stated in the ROD, the RALs represent current EPA Vapor
       Intrusion Screening Levels (VISLs) set at a target Hazard Quotient (HQ) of 1, which falls
       midway between EPA’s cancer risk range of 1x10-6 to 1x10-4. They are developed using
       health-protective assumptions and toxicity information for each individual chemical that
       is intended to be protective of all individuals, including sensitive subgroups such as
       pregnant women, children and the elderly, so that they may be exposed without adverse
       effects over a lifetime or part of a lifetime, incorporating an adequate margin of safety.
       The VISLs, and thus the RALs, are only screening values. They will be considered with
       other Site-specific lines of evidence such as subsurface geology and hydrogeology,
       subsurface contamination levels, the structural characteristics of each building, and
       proximity to other impacted structures in determining whether there is a need for
       remedial action. The need for remedial action will also be determined in consultation
       with NYSDEC and the NYSDOH, including consideration of NYSDOH’s Guidance for
       Evaluating Soil Vapor Intrusion in the State of New York.
       The RALs will not be used as a discrete line to determine if mitigation is needed or not;
       rather, each individual property will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine if
       mitigation is warranted based on current and reasonably anticipated future use. EPA will
       err on the side of protectiveness when making these determinations and the determination
       to mitigate at any individual property could be made even if there are no RAL
       exceedances if the other lines of evidence, such as those described in the previous
       paragraph, suggest it would be appropriate, in consultation with NYSDEC, NYSDOH
       and EPA’s risk assessor.
Comment 5: The CAG asks that applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements (ARARs)
be taken into consideration when establishing RALs for the site. They note that Section 121(d) of
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA) requires that on-site remedial actions attain or waive federal environmental ARARs,
or more stringent state environmental ARARs, upon completion of the remedial action, and point
out that NYSDEC’s action levels are more stringent than EPA’s RALs. The CAG also makes the
point that Region 9 uses lower values than Region 2 for RALs.

       EPA Response 5: In October 2006, NYSDOH published “Guidance for Evaluating Soil
       Vapor Intrusion in the State of New York”
       (https://www.health.ny.gov/environmental/indoors/vapor_intrusion/docs/2006_guidance.
       pdf). The preface to this document, which has been updated over the years, most recently
       in February 2024, states that it has been prepared by NYSDOH in consultation with
       NYSDEC and that is intended as “general guidance for parties evaluating soil vapor
       intrusion in the State of New York.” The guidance goes on to state directly that it is not
       “a regulation, rule or requirement.” As such, this document would not be considered an
       ARAR for the site. Further, EPA Region 9 guidelines would not be considered ARARs
       for EPA Region 2. However, the guidance documents referred to in the comment are to
       be considered (TBC) in the Superfund remedy selection process. As such, EPA will
       consider these values in remedial decision making along with the multiple lines of
       evidence discussed above.


Comment 6: The CAG stated that the residential RAL for TCE should be set to 2 ug/m3 or
below based on EPA Region 9 recommendations found in this document:
https://archive.epa.gov/region9/superfund/web/pdf/r9-tce-interim-action-levels-response-recs-
memo-2014.pdf and the NYSDOH recommendation that “TCE concentrations in the air not
exceed 2 ug/m3.

       EPA Response 6: The EPA Region 9 memo that is referenced by the CAG is an archived
       document from 2014 and does not include the most up to date methodology/exposure
       parameters for calculating VISLs, which are typically updated twice a year by EPA.
       Current VISLs can be found here: https://www.epa.gov/vaporintrusion/vapor-intrusion-
       screening-level-calculator

       Region 2’s current residential VISL for TCE is 2.1 ug/m3, which is only slightly higher
       than the Region 9 number and the NYSDOH numbers referenced by the CAG, and is
       consistent with EPA’s current Vapor Intrusion guidelines. Further, as is explained in
       EPA’s response to Comment 4, above, the decision of whether to mitigate any particular
       property will be made based on multiple lines of evidence and in consultation with
       NYSDEC, NYSDOH and EPA’s risk assessor.

Comment 7: The CAG thinks the commercial/industrial RAL should be more stringent for both
TCE and PCE. The commercial/industrial RALs in the Proposed Plan are based on an 8-hour
workday. Instead, they recommend that a 10-hour workday be assumed, particularly because of
the number of people who both live and work in the neighborhood, and the frequency with which
people work greater than 8-hour workdays. In addition, the CAG notes that assuming a 10-hour
workday would bring the RAL for TCE closer to the Region 9 recommendation referenced in
Comment 6, above.

       EPA Response 7: EPA’s commercial RALs are based on a typical workday and are
       considered protective for most workers including sensitive subpopulations, such as
       pregnant women and the elderly. Response #20 discusses in more detail the conservative
       exposure parameters used to calculate commercial/industrial RALs. As stated in the
       proposed plan and ROD, the commercial/industrial RALs assume an eight-hour workday,
       which is protective of most non-residential settings and can be adjusted as needed to
       account for property-specific conditions. If the Region were to become aware of a
       situation where 10 or 12-hour workdays were the norm, the RAL could be adjusted to
       account for that. A RAL for a 10-hr workday would be 7.0 ug/m3 for TCE and 140 ug/m3
       for PCE. Assuming a 12-hr workday, the RALs would be 5.8 ug/m3 and 120 ug/m3 for
       TCE and PCE, respectively. The indoor air RALs for both TCE and PCE based on an
       8hr, 10hr and 12hr days are displayed in the table below. The Region understands and
       agrees that many workers spend more than 8 hours a day at their place of business and, in
       addition, that many people both live and work in the neighborhood, often in the same
       space (i.e., they work from home), in which case a residential RAL might be more
       appropriate. Property-specific determinations will be made on a property-specific basis
       based on multiple lines of evidence. As is stated in the ROD, “whether to apply the
       residential RAL or Commercial/Industrial RAL will also be determined on a case-by-case
       basis, in consultation with NYSDEC and NYSDOH. In general, EPA understands that
       many properties that are zoned for non-residential use may be used, either regularly or
       from time-to-time, in what would be more consistent with residential exposure
       assumptions. The residential RALs may be used at any property, residential or non-
       residential, if there is reason to believe the commercial/industrial RALs are not
       sufficiently conservative, either under current or reasonably anticipated future use
       scenarios.” These decisions will also be made in consultation with EPA’s risk assessor.


                                   Commercial/Industrial Remedial
                  Contaminant         Action Level, Indoor Air
                      of                      (ug/m3)
                   Concern
                                     8hr      10hr        12hr
                      TCE            8.8        7          5.8
                      PCE           180        140        120


Comment 8: The CAG thinks the residential RAL should be more stringent for PCE and notes
that it seems to correspond not to a one-in-a-million cancer risk, but instead are pegged to non-
cancer risk. The CAG expressed that the community deserves to be granted the utmost protection
and they are concerned that the EPA allows a cancer risk range of 1x10-4 and 1x10-6, but the
RALs do not correspond to the most stringent standard. The CAG requests that the RAL for PCE
be set to the NYSDOH value of 30 ug/m3 or less.
       EPA Response 8: EPA’s current residential VISL based on a 10-6 cancer risk for PCE is
       42 ug/m3, which is consistent with EPA’s current Vapor Intrusion guidelines and based
       on the most up-to-date methodology/exposure parameters for calculating VISLs. As
       stated in the Role of the Baseline Risk Assessment in Superfund Remedy Selection
       (https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2015-11/documents/baseline.pdf):
       “Generally, where the baseline risk assessment indicates that a cumulative site risk to an
       individual using reasonable maximum exposure assumptions for either current or future
       land use exceeds the 10-4 lifetime excess cancer risk end of the risk range, action under
       CERCLA is generally warranted at the site. For sites where the cumulative site risk to an
       individual based on reasonable maximum exposure for both current and future land use is
       less than 10-4, action generally is not warranted, but may be warranted if a chemical
       specific standard that defines acceptable risk is violated or unless there are
       noncarcinogenic effects or an adverse environmental impact that warrants action. A risk
       manager may also decide that a lower level of risk to human health is unacceptable and
       that remedial action is warranted where, for example, there are uncertainties in the risk
       assessment results. Records of Decision for remedial actions taken at sites posing risks
       within the 10-4 to 10-6 risk range must explain why remedial why remedial action is
       warranted.”
       The noncancer hazard falls within the risk range established in the National Contingency
       Plan (NCP) for taking action. As such, it serves as a useful benchmark for determining an
       action is necessary; however, as is explained in EPA’s response to Comment 4, above,
       the decision of whether to mitigate any particular property will be made based on
       multiple lines of evidence and in consultation with NYSDEC, NYSDOH and EPA’s
       team, including the risk assessor.
Comment 9: At the May 30, 2024, presentation by the EPA, results of some of the well
sampling were presented. A select list of contaminants found in the groundwater was presented,
many of which are known to be harmful to human health. While the CAG applauds the
investigation of PCE and TCE in the area, given the profusion of other harmful contaminants, the
CAG is concerned that other contaminants that may negatively affect our public health are not
being properly considered. When the EPA does indoor air sampling, does it test for other
contaminants? If so, which ones? If levels of these contaminants are found at harmful
concentrations, what is done? The CAG requests that the EPA take full advantage any time they
have access to a property and ensure the inhabitants are protected not just from PCE and TCE,
but also from other potentially harmful compounds, especially those that have been found to be
present in the groundwater sampling.
       EPA Response 9: When EPA conducts vapor intrusion sampling in residential and non-
       residential buildings, EPA analyzes the samples collected for multiple volatile organic
       compounds (VOCs). The contaminant list can vary depending on which laboratory is
       selected to conduct the analysis. However, there are typically 50 to 55 VOCs that are
       analyzed for during each event. All of these compounds are evaluated to see if they are
       related to the Site and compared to EPA’s vapor intrusion screening levels in the same
       fashion as TCE and PCE.
       The full list of contaminants is available at the following link:
       https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/amtic/files/ambient/airtox/to-15r.pdf.
       EPA understands the community would like EPA to evaluate contaminants other than
       TCE and PCE, but it is important to note this is an interim remedial decision based on the
       information currently available for the site, which shows TCE and PCE as the primary
       contaminants in groundwater contributing to vapor intrusion risk. As is stated in the
       ROD, if additional contaminants of concern are identified during the ongoing OU1 RI/FS
       that may adversely affect indoor air, EPA’s VISLs and NYSDOH guidance will be
       reviewed and, if warranted, appropriate mitigative actions will be taken.

Comment 10: The CAG thinks it is vital that ARARs be applied for this decision even though
they understand they are not required since this is an interim decision. They go on to explain that
EPA has stated numerous times that the reason that it is addressing vapor intrusion now is
because it is an immediate health risk, but, as of yet, there is no timeline or plan for an
underlying cleanup or removal action. As such, it is unknown for how long the community will
exist with only this proposed plan to protect its health. Because of all these unknowns and the
EPA’s own indications that the health risks are immediate, the CAG believes that the standards
of ARARs should apply. Additionally, the CAG went on to note that the community has been
very supportive of and even pushed for the site to move from a state-level site to the National
Priorities List, but are concerned now if this move means less protective health standards than
were used under the state cleanup will be applied, stating that this goes against all the reasons
that the site was elevated to a national status.

       EPA Response 10: The proposed plan is an interim remedial action that is intended to
       reduce site risks early in the Superfund site remediation process. EPA’s preferred
       alternative includes engineering measures and vapor intrusion mitigation systems that do
       not treat the subsurface vapor source, but rather serve to prevent contaminated soil vapors
       from entering and/or accumulating in structures at concentrations that represent a threat,
       or a potential threat, to human health. Because the remedy for OU2 is considered an
       interim remedy, identification of ARARs is not required at this time. That said, ARARs
       and TBCs will be considered in decision making. Regarding the CAG’s comment on the
       health standards, please refer to EPA responses 4 through 8. To summarize, the RALs
       are just one line of evidence that will be considered in concert with other factors
       including site-specific, and property-specific, lines of evidence such as subsurface
       geology and hydrogeology, subsurface contamination levels, the structural characteristics
       of each building, and proximity to other impacted structures in determining whether there
       is a need for mitigation. The need mitigation will also be determined in consultation with
       NYSDEC and the NYSDOH, including consideration of NYSDOH’s Guidance for
       Evaluating Soil Vapor Intrusion in the State of New York, and the EPA risk assessor will
       be consulted on each individual decision.
       A timeline for the OU1 RI/FS has not yet been established. However, vapor intrusion and
       groundwater investigations are currently in progress. Given the scope of the
       investigation, EPA expects that the OU1 RI/FS process will take a number of years to
       complete. EPA acknowledges community’s frustration with the process, however, EPA’s
       goal is to complete the OU1 RI/FS as thoroughly and quickly as possible on two parallel
       tracks, as described in the response to Comment 1. Regarding the CAG’s comment on the
       health standards, please refer to EPA responses 4 through 8. To summarize, the RALs
       are just one line of evidence that will be considered in concert with other factors
       including site-specific, and property-specific, lines of evidence such as subsurface
       geology and hydrogeology, subsurface contamination levels, the structural characteristics
       of each building, and proximity to other impacted structures in determining whether there
       is a need for mitigation. The need mitigation will also be determined in consultation with
       NYSDEC and the NYSDOH, including consideration of NYSDOH’s Guidance for
       Evaluating Soil Vapor Intrusion in the State of New York, and the EPA risk assessor will
       be consulted on each individual decision.


Comment 11: The CAG believes that soil gas vapor testing should be implemented in addition
to soil vapor intrusion, since it can be done in the public right of way and would provide some
data on how likely a vapor intrusion risk is at a particular property, even if access to that property
is denied. This would provide additional information to help the EPA determine whether it is
vital to consider using additional measures to gain access to the property for testing. Depending
on the underlying properties of soil in different parts of the neighborhood, the well sampling
might not be a good proxy for soil gas vapor and potential vapor intrusion. Without a larger data
set of results from indoor air testing, The CAG doesn’t feel confident that a plan based on such a
small sample of properties is the best for the community. For example, soil gas vapor testing
could be used at residences where tenants have requested testing, but the property owner has not
granted access, should the EPA be unwilling to use its administrative authority to force access.
       EPA Response 11: NYSDEC has collected nearly 1,000 soil gas samples and has made
       that data available to EPA for evaluation, which EPA considers a substantial dataset.
       EPA is in the process of evaluating this soil gas data and will collect additional samples if
       needed. Collecting soil vapor samples from outside of buildings does not provide a 1:1
       correlation to soil vapor concentrations beneath an adjacent building. As indicated in
       EPA’s Technical Guide for Assessing and Mitigating the Vapor Intrusion Pathway from
       Subsurface Vapor Sources to Indoor Air (https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2015-
       09/documents/oswer-vapor-intrusion-technical-guide-final.pdf), “individual exterior soil
       gas samples cannot generally be expected to accurately estimate sub-slab or indoor air
       concentrations.” Therefore, EPA’s priority thus far has been to conduct sub-slab and
       indoor air sampling to address any immediate health concerns and groundwater sampling
       to determine the nature and extent of the groundwater plume.
Comment 12: The CAG requests that the EPA be willing to test apartments on upper floors in
elevator buildings and buildings with other vertical conduits. It has been found that elevators can
increase the movement of vapors throughout a building. The EPA has stated on numerous
occasions that testing every building within the investigation area would be an aspirational goal.
Since there is evidence that upper-level apartments in elevator buildings may have greater risk of
indoor air issues due to vapor intrusion, the CAG sees no reason why the EPA should turn away
willing participants of this type
       EPA Response 12: The soil, soil gas, and groundwater at the Site are contaminated with
       CVOCs. CVOCs are a subset of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which are
       substances that typically evaporate at room temperature. They can affect the indoor air of
       properties located in close proximity to contaminated areas by entering the indoor air of
       structures through small cracks, pipes or other points of entry. Based on how soil vapors
       usually enter a building , indoor air samples collected from the lowest level floor and
       basement typically exhibit the highest concentrations of vapors. If EPA were to find that
       the concentration of contaminants on the first floor are unusually elevated, EPA could
       elect to collect additional samples from higher floors to ensure that these locations are not
       presenting an unacceptable risk to those living on those floors. EPA is aware that in
       some situations that elevators and elevator shafts can provide preferential pathways for
       vapors and will consider testing of upper floors in buildings with elevators.
Comment 13: The CAG believes the EPA should do vapor intrusion sampling outside of the
winter heating season. The EPA should identify test sites where indoor air is sampled during the
winter heating season and at other times as well, especially during times of heavy rainfall to
assess whether winter heating season testing is indeed the best method for determining risk of
vapor intrusion. Seasonal variability of factors such as weather and rainfall can affect vapor
intrusion. From a June 2015 document of the EPA’s Office of Solid Waste and Emergency
Response, “Because fluctuations in water table elevation can lead to elevated vapor
concentrations in the vadose zone, EPA also recommends that “near source” soil gas sampling
(and possibly a soil gas survey) be considered in different seasons that coincide with
groundwater fluctuations.”
       EPA Response 13: Indoor air samples are typically collected during the winter heating
       season because soil vapor intrusion is more likely to occur when a building's heating
       system is in operation, doors and windows are closed and buildings are generally less
       ventilated. When buildings are closed up and heated, a difference in temperature
       between the inside and outdoor air induces a stack effect, pulling warm air from lower to
       higher floors. Vapor intrusion can be enhanced as the air is replaced in the lower parts of
       the building. In New York State, heating systems are generally expected to be operating
       routinely from November 15th to March 31st. However, these dates are not absolute.
       EPA can collect vapor intrusion samples outside of the winter heating season if EPA
       determines the circumstances warrant testing. However, these samples could not be used
       to rule out exposure. Samples during the heating season would still be necessary to verify
       indoor concentrations under a worst-case scenario.
Comment 14: The CAG believes that given that TCE exposure during the first few weeks of
pregnancy increases the risk of heart damage to a developing fetus, testing should be done in
homes at any season if there is a person of childbearing age living in the home. The risk is
greatest between weeks 2 and 8 of pregnancy, which is often before a person may even know
that they are pregnant. Thus, to reduce the risk of birth defects, it would make sense to ensure
safe living and working conditions for any person who may become pregnant.
       EPA Response 14: EPA evaluates each situation on a case-by-case basis and would
       consider vapor intrusion sampling if the circumstances warrant testing. Additionally,
       Region 2 has a long-standing process for reviewing vapor intrusion data so that
       expeditious decisions regarding mitigation can be made, especially in situations where
       TCE is a contaminate of concern.
Comment 15: The CAG has questions about how long the results of vapor intrusion testing are
valid. Given that the condition of the foundation, for example, can change with construction
projects, earthquakes, etc, we are concerned that while initial testing may deem a location “safe,”
the status may change in the future. The CAG would like to see a schedule under which
properties can be retested or a list of changes that would make a property eligible to be retested.
The CAG has seen it suggested that if soil gas vapor tests above a certain threshold, perhaps
mitigation should be suggested in locations even if the indoor air tests “safe” in the event of
future changes to the building.
       EPA Response 15: EPA does not have a schedule under which properties would be
       retested. Each request that is submitted to EPA for testing is evaluated on a case-by-case
       basis, including those requests made when a property has already been tested. Situations
       that may lead EPA to retest a property can include, but are not limited to, the
       concentrations of compounds detected during a previous sampling event, new vapor
       intrusion testing data at neighboring and adjacent properties, significant changes to a
       building’s construction (i.e., significant remodeling) and/or foundation (i.e., new cracks),
       and changes in EPA’s understanding of groundwater flow direction and/or groundwater
       contaminant concentrations. Also, keep in mind that EPA’s long-term goal is to address
       the source and/or sources of contamination to reduce the likelihood of vapor intrusion
       concerns at the site. As mentioned in EPA Response 10, EPA looks at multiple lines of
       evidence when determining whether there is a need for mitigation, including subsurface
       geology and hydrogeology, subsurface contamination levels, the structural characteristics
       of each building, and proximity to other impacted structures. For example, if EPA finds
       that contamination levels in the sub-slab significantly exceed the RALs, but first floor
       contamination levels do not exceed the RALs, then EPA may consider whether
       mitigation is required.
Comment 16: The CAG is concerned that not all available information is being collected and
analyzed. In particular, the EPA should use all data and wells from the National Grid site to
determine the extent of the plume given that groundwater analysis presented at the May 30,
2024, CAG meeting showed that contamination exists right up against the current boundary of
the plume and the National Grid property. The CAG also believes that there should be better
coordination with the Newtown Creek site in order to gain further information about how the two
sites affect one another.
       EPA Response 16: EPA is actively coordinating with property owners in the area to gain
       access to sample existing wells and/or to install new wells, including National Grid. EPA
       anticipates sampling several of the existing wells on their property in the upcoming fall
       2024 groundwater sampling effort. This is a dynamic process and as more data is
       collected, it may become apparent that additional sampling locations should be tested.
       EPA will continue to keep the CAG informed as more information is developed. EPA’s
       Meeker Avenue Plume Site project managers work with the EPA’s Newtown Creek
       project managers to eliminate any duplication of effort, ensure coordination between both
       teams, and share data across both sites. EPA also regularly meets with and coordinates
       with NYSDEC and NYSDOH.
A comment letter (via electronic format) was submitted by Brooklyn Community Board No. 1.
Comment 17: Brooklyn Community Board No.1 requested that EPA adhere to the more
stringent NYSDEC vapor intrusion chemical contamination thresholds that 1) are lower for TCE
and PCE than those used by EPA and 2) require residential and commercial spaces utilize the
same RALS instead of using higher levels for commercial spaces.

Their letter also voiced that this project is of the utmost concern, not only due the breadth,
severity and complexity of the Meeker Avenue Plume contamination, but because this Superfund
site resides solely within the confines of Brooklyn Community District #1, a district that has a
long history of exposure to toxic sites. The letter expressed concern with the protectiveness of
the RALs that EPA is using and asked that EPA not seek waivers to override the State
guidelines. The letter also explained that it is both normal and pervasive for workers in
commercial work environments to spend more time (very often more than 10 hours) at their
workplace than at their home, and reiterated that it is imperative that residents and workers in the
district receive the same level of protection that the state would provide.
       EPA Response 17: EPA appreciates the long history of contamination that is present in
       the neighborhoods represented by Community Board No. 1 and understands the distress
       this has caused to so many in the area. Very similar concerns regarding the appropriate
       RALs to use and the need to follow State regulations were also raised by the Meeker
       Avenue Plume CAG. Please see EPA Responses 4 through 10 above.

A member of the community submitted a comment to EPA via e-mail, which is provided below,
along with EPA’s response.
Comment 18: The community member is concerned about access to residential properties for
vapor intrusion sampling. They think that having to get landlord permission to get their
apartment tested makes this testing program useless. As someone with health problems living on
the Meeker Superfund site who wanted to get our building tested, they were unable to do so
because they couldn't get landlord permission. Their building is an old building with many
visible cracks in the facade and ground floor where vapors could easily get through, and there is
also a basement unit. The community member feels that in order for this program to work, a
court order needs to be put in place immediately requiring testing, because when left with a
choice, the overwhelming majority of landlords will not choose to get the space tested. They feel
it is completely unrealistic to think that landlords will comply voluntarily. They voiced that
delays continue to jeopardize the health of the community who actually lives in the superfund
site (the renters).
       EPA Response 18: Consent is the preferred method for EPA to obtain property access
       for various CERCLA activities including vapor intrusion sampling. However, EPA has
       the ability to use other enforcement options, including administrative or judicial orders or
       warrants to compel access when consent is not forthcoming or otherwise is denied and
       access is necessary. As such, while EPA always seeks access for the purposes of
       sampling or mitigation through consent from property owners, a decision by EPA that
       access is necessary leading to the use of its access authorities will depend on the facts of
       the situation, including the levels of contamination and exposure scenarios. Please also
       see EPA’s response to Comment 2 above.


Part 2: Verbal Comments
EPA received a number of verbal comments from community members during the public meeting
held on April 16, 2024. The comments are provided below, along with EPA’s responses.
Comment 19: A community member asked EPA to identify and describe briefly the sources of
pollution?
       EPA Response 19: EPA is still in the process of identifying source areas for the site as
       part of the ongoing OU1 RI/FS. Prior to the site being added to the Superfund list,
       NYSDEC had already identified at least six likely source areas and another ten to twenty
       additional probable source areas. The uses of these properties vary and will be explored
       further during the RI/FS process, but at least one was a used for dry cleaning and another
       was a drum reconditioner. EPA is investigating all of these areas and others as part of the
       OU1 RI/FS.

       To expand upon information provided at the meeting, the properties already designated
       by NYSDEC as likely source areas include:
          • Former Spic and Span Cleaners and Dyers, Inc. (NYSDEC No. 224129)
          • Former Klink Cosmo Cleaners (NYSDEC No. 224130)
          • Former Acme Steel / Metal Works (NYSDEC No. 224131)
          • Former Acme Steel / Brass Foundry (NYSDEC No. 224132)
          • Former Lombardy Street Lacquer and Soap (NYSDEC No. ID No. 224182)
          • Former Goodman Bros. Steel Drum Co. Inc (NYSDEC No. 224211)
          • 291 Richardson Street Site (NYSDEC No. C224292)


Comment 20: A community member, who also identified as a resident and a member of
Evergreen, asked EPA to explain why the RALs are different between residential and
commercial properties and whether it has to do with how much time people spend in one place
versus the other. They also asked whether the RALs offer the same level of protection and if
more TCE or PCE intrusion is allowed in a space that’s commercial because people might spend
less time there.
       EPA Response 20: The primary difference between EPA’s residential and commercial
       RAL calculations is the exposure time per day (residential at 24 hours per day;
       commercial at 8 hours per day), the number of days exposed per year (residential at 350
       days per year; commercial at 250 days per year) and the number of years exposed
       (residential at 26 years; commercial at 25 years).
       To expand upon what was said at the meeting, in order for there to be risk, there needs to
       be exposure and the longer the exposure, the higher the risk. In general, people spend less
       time at their job than they do at home. Therefore, just based on the math, somewhat
       higher concentrations for non-residential properties would result in similar risk levels for
        somewhat lower concentrations at residential properties. However, as is noted in EPA
        Response 7, the determination of the most appropriate RAL to use for any particular
        property will be determined on a case-by-case basis. The residential RALs may be used
        at any property, residential or non-residential, if there is reason to believe the
        commercial/industrial RALs are not sufficiently conservative, either under current or
        reasonably anticipated future use scenarios, and these decisions will be made in
        consultation with NYSDEC, NYSDOH and EPA’s risk assessor.

                                                              Receptor Population
                                              Resident                     Commercial/Industrial Worker
 Exposure Parameter                 Value          Source/Rationale            Value        Source/Rationale
                                                                                            typical workday; may
                                                                                            be adjusted based on
 Exposure Time                 24 hours/day       whole day                8 hours/day      site-specific
                                                                                            considerations
                                                  EPA, 2011; 90th                           EPA, 1991; 95th
 Exposure Duration             26 years           percentile for current   25 years         percentile; Bureau of
                                                  residence time                            Labor Statistics, 1990
                                                  EPA, 1991; 365                            EPA, 1991; assumes
                                                  days/year minus 15                        5 days/week for 50
 Exposure Frequency            350 days/year      days/year spent away     250 days/year    weeks/year (assumes
                                                  from home                                 2 weeks of vacation)


 Sources:
 EPA, 1991. Human health evaluation manual, supplemental guidance: Standard default exposure factors. OSWER
 Directive 9285.6-03
 EPA, 2011. Exposure Factors Handbook: 2011 Edition. EPA/600/R-090/052F, September 2011




Comment 21: A community member asked why the Proposed Plan assumes 100 buildings will
require mitigation.
        EPA Response 21: In order to develop a cost estimate for the mitigation measures, EPA
        used best professional judgement to develop a reasonable estimate of how many
        properties may require mitigation. The estimate was based on the number of properties
        within the Study Area, as well as the number of properties that have required mitigation
        thus far. That said, if more properties require mitigation, they will still be addressed. One
        of the assumptions of Superfund decision documents is that the cost estimates used to
        support RODs are expected to be accurate within a range of +50 to -30 percent. Further,
        even if we do end up going outside of this range (i.e., if we need to mitigate more than
        about 150 properties or fewer than about 70) we can modify the decision document so
        that we can still complete the work.
Comment 22: A community member, who also identified as the chair of the Environmental
Protection Committee at Brooklyn Community Board No. 1, asked if EPA could look at the
proximity of a property to other properties that require mitigation and/or to known areas of
elevated concentrations in the soil and/or groundwater, to determine where to focus future vapor
intrusion sampling. The community member pointed out that this type of approach could be
helpful to minimize adverse effects to property owners from testing.
       EPA Response 22: EPA will use the information it gathers from the ongoing
       groundwater investigation, additional investigations that will be conducted as part of the
       OU1 RI/FS, and the State’s data, including the extensive network of soil gas wells they
       installed mostly in sidewalks to help focus ongoing vapor intrusion testing efforts within
       or adjacent to the Study Area.
       To supplement what was stated at the meeting, EPA’s Technical Guide for Assessing and
       Mitigating the Vapor Intrusion Pathway from Subsurface Vapor Sources to Indoor Air
       recommends a buffer zone, or distance, of 100 feet (laterally or vertically) for identifying
       buildings that are close to a subsurface vapor source or an area with vapor intrusion
       concerns that may warrant indoor air sampling. However, this distance is not absolute for
       several reasons stated in the guidance document, assumes that significant surface covers
       are not present, and assumes that preferential vapor migration routes are absent.
       Regardless of the distance every property that EPA evaluates for vapor intrusion testing
       is reviewed on a case-by-case basis as discussed in the guidance document. EPA
       estimates that there are between 900 and 1,000 properties located within EPA’s current
       study area.


Comment 23: The same community member asked EPA to clarify approximately how many
residential properties are with the Study Area right now.

       EPA Response 23: EPA estimates that there are between 900 and 1,000 properties within
       the preliminary Study Area.

Comment 24: A community member, who also identified as a resident within the Study Area,
asked if similar sites exist, in the city or elsewhere, with similar concerns, and if depressurization
systems have been successfully deployed in these other situations. They also asked if there are
other neighborhoods that have similar contaminants with similar concentrations.

       EPA Response24: Sub-slab depressurization is a proven mitigation technology that has
       been shown to be effective at this Site, as well as at similar sites in EPA Region 2 and
       throughout the country (for examples of similar decisions at other sites, see
       https://semspub.epa.gov/src/document/02/630395, which relates to the Facet
       Enterprises, Inc. site in EPA Region 2, and https://semspub.epa.gov/src/
       document/05/986651, which relates to the Keystone Corridor Groundwater
       Contamination site in EPA Region 5).
       NYSDEC has been working on this Site since 2007 and has used the same technology to
       effectively mitigate approximately 26 properties. A section supervisor at NYSDEC in
       attendance at the meeting confirmed there are many places within New York City and
       New York State that have soil vapor plumes and that they have been mitigated using the
       same technology. They noted that it is a well-documented, standard approach.
Comment 25: A community member, who also identified as an individual that lives and works
in the area, asked if the testing area has remained the same, expanded or contracted based on the
testing EPA has completed thus far.
       EPA Response 25: The preliminary Study Area remains the same at this time.
Comment 26: A resident asked if there is currently or will there be an oversight body that
coordinates the various sites in the area, particularly as boundaries of sites may shift, and if so,
who this oversight body would be?
       EPA Response 26: The Newtown Creek and Meeker Avenue Plume sites are managed in
       the same section at EPA. EPA shares information between the sites and, for example, we
       recently coordinated groundwater sampling efforts at both sites. The other Federal
       Superfund sites in New York City, including the Wolff-Alport and Gowanus Canal sites,
       are also managed in the same office and we coordinate on those sites as well. A section
       supervisor at NYSDEC in attendance at the meeting also confirmed that EPA and
       NYSDEC coordinate regularly, particularly on the Newtown Creek and Meeker Avenue
       Plume sites.

       To expand upon what was said at the meeting, NYSDEC also oversees several non-
       Federal sites in the area and coordinates regularly with NYSDEC and NYSDOH as well.
Comment 27: A resident asked if there are any conflicts of interest between the responsible
parties and the cleanup efforts, especially since they think NYS is a responsible party.
       EPA Response 27: EPA has not yet named any responsible parties for the Meeker
       Avenue Plume site. This is a process we are working on and can take some time. The
       State of New York is considered our Partner Agency and is not a responsible party for
       this site. They asked EPA to take the lead on this site after investigating it for a number
       of years. As the responsible party search continues, we may have to figure out how to
       address any potential conflicts, particularly if common responsible parties are found
       between multiple sites. EPA has a longstanding policy to pursue "enforcement first"
       throughout the Superfund cleanup process. This policy promotes the "polluter pays"
       principle and helps to conserve the resources of the Hazardous Substance Trust Fund for
       the cleanup of those sites where viable responsible parties do not exist.


Comment 28: A member of the Newtown Creek Alliance asked EPA a series of questions
relating to the RALs. The questions/comments can be summarized as:
a. How did EPA arrive at the RALs that are included in the Proposed Plan?
b. While the residential RALs seem to be based on the conservative assumption that people are
   in their homes 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, the commercial RALs do not seem
   conservative enough. The commenter pointed out that he knows lots of people that work
   more than 40 hours per week and that, therefore, having a RAL that is four times less
   protective for non-residential workers is unacceptable, especially given the large number of
   commercial/industrial properties in the area.
       EPA Response 28: EPA noted that the EPA risk assessor was not able to attend the
       meeting so, therefore, detailed, full responses would be provided in the responsiveness
       summary. In general, however, EPA pointed out that each property is looked at
       holistically and decisions are made on how best to proceed on a case-by-case basis based
       on multiple lines of evidence. The RALs are not bright lines that EPA will use to
       determine if mitigation and/or additional monitoring is needed.

       A representative from NYSDOH that was present at the meeting confirmed that while
       they do not necessarily draw a distinction between residential and non-residential uses,
       EPA, NYSDEC and NYSDOH will coordinate regularly on making property-by-property
       determinations. The section supervisor from NYSDEC also commented that the decision
       document memorializing the cleanup plan for this action will be written with sufficient
       flexibility to allow for case-by-case decisions to be made.

       Please see EPA Responses 4 through 10, above, for further detail in response to these
       questions.

Comment 29: A meeting attendee asked a series of questions related to access, testing rate and
outreach. He specifically wanted to know how many properties EPA received access to, how
many owners are on the lower floors (versus tenants), and if overall EPA is happy with the
amount of access we have received. He noted that he spent a day helping the outreach team and
saw how difficult it is to get access to properties with absentee landlords. He also asked
specifically about Cooper Park Houses and the testing there.
       EPA Response 29: EPA explained that there are between 900 and 1,000 properties
       within the preliminary Study Area. Prior to the site being designated as a Superfund site
       in March 2022, NYSDEC had sampled more than 160 of those properties (over a 15 year
       period from 2007 and 2022). As of December 2023, EPA has conducted vapor intrusion
       sampling and fully evaluated the results at 18 residential structures, 11 public housing
       buildings (Cooper Park Houses), and one public school. Out of these, EPA has
       determined that vapor mitigation is not needed at this time at any of the properties it has
       sampled, and that further monitoring should be conducted at three of the residential
       properties. In addition, in February and March 2024, EPA sampled 18 properties and is in
       the process of evaluating the results. EPA agrees that outreach has been a struggle and it
       is something we are working very hard on. The representative from NYSDOH concurred
       obtaining access was their biggest hurdle to sampling as well. He noted that they sent out
       close to 1,000 letters requesting access to test in the 2021 to 2022 heating season. Out of
       that batch of letters, they received access to just 60 properties.
       All that said, the outreach and access efforts are ongoing and will continue for at least the
       next several years. The decision described in the ROD will give EPA the ability to
       mitigate vapor intrusion issues as we discover them prior to fully understanding the
       nature and extent of contamination in groundwater. We are still working to access as
       many properties as we can to conduct vapor intrusion sampling. To supplement what was
       said at the meeting, EPA’s outreach has included meetings and telephone calls with
       individual tenants and property owners, door-to-door efforts, tabling at multiple
       community events, written correspondence (direct mailing) and social media outreach in
       four languages, regular updates to the Site’s EPA website, in-person community and
       public meetings, meetings and information sharing with elected officials, radio
       interviews, targeted meetings at the Cooper Park Houses and with PS-110 staff and the
       PTA, media interviews (paper, on-line and television outlets), and interviews with local
       podcasts. With that said, EPA’s goal is to improve on our outreach efforts and
       correspond with as many people as possible and this will be the focus of the updated
       Community Involvement Plan. Please refer to EPA Response #1 for additional detail.
       Regarding Cooper Park Houses, EPA was able to test all 11 of the buildings when we did
       the sampling in 2023. There are no residences on the ground floor of any of the buildings,
       but there are offices, lunch areas, community rooms, etc. Each building is unique. We
       were able to test these common spaces. We also tested sub-slab soil gas under the
       buildings and outdoor air near the buildings. The results showed that none of the Cooper
       Park Houses buildings require mitigation.


Comment 30: A meeting attendee asked if denying access would put a landlord at legal risk of
being sued by tenants in the future if, for example, the kids grow up and develop an illness.

       EPA Response 30: EPA stated that we cannot provide legal advice to members of the
       public. EPA went on to clarify that we have the authority under Superfund law to access
       properties for sampling and response actions. While voluntary consent is our preference,
       we are able to require access through administrative or judicial means.

Comment 31: A community member, who identified as an individual that lives and works in the
community, asked if EPA would go back and retest properties.
       EPA Response 31: EPA evaluates each property on a case-by-case basis, including those
       properties that have already been tested. EPA has reviewed the properties tested by the
       state and has not seen the need to revisit any of those yet. If someone contacts us and lets
       us know of a changed situation, such as a structural change to the building or a change in
       usage, then we would evaluate if re-testing is needed. In addition, based on the results
       from the initial round of sampling, EPA may determine it makes sense to re-test a
       structure. For example, if property-specific review of the multiple lines of evidence that
       are gathered are inconclusive, re-testing may be warranted. And to expand upon what
       was said at the meeting, other situations that may lead EPA to retest a property can
       include, but are not limited to, new vapor intrusion testing data at neighboring and
       adjacent properties and changes in EPA’s understanding of groundwater flow direction
       and/or groundwater contaminant concentrations.

Comment 32: A community member and representative of North Brooklyn Neighbors asked if
the commercial RALs account for the most vulnerable populations, such as pregnant women and
people who are elderly, and noted that the makeup of the current workforce can change over time
(i.e., people may become pregnant).
       EPA Response 32: EPA reiterated that we look at each property individually and use
       multiple lines of evidence to determine whether mitigation is needed. To supplement
       what was said at the meeting, EPA’s commercial RALs are considered protective for all
       workers including sensitive subpopulations, such as pregnant women and the elderly.
       Please refer to EPA Response 7 for more information.

Comment 33: The same resident asked how the venting for mitigation systems is designed so
that nearby properties are not adversely affected.


       EPA Response 33: EPA acknowledged the question and looked into this further after the
       meeting. EPA will follow the NYSDOH’s guidance to the extent practicable.
       NYSDOH’s guidance requires the exhaust or vent pipe to extend vertically through the
       building floors and to terminate at least 12 inches above the surface of the roof, in a
       location at least 10 feet away from any window or other opening into the conditioned
       spaces of the building that is less than two feet below the exhaust point, and 10 feet from
       any adjoining or adjacent buildings.

Comment 34: A community member, who also identified as a resident in the area, asked about a
tenant/renters right to information regarding vapor intrusion sampling, including whether a
tenant can find out if testing has been conducted and have access to the results.
       EPA Response 34: EPA explained that all data will be shared with the property owner
       and the tenants of any units tested. From a larger perspective, we are also working to
       develop maps (called cluster maps) that will display how many properties have been
       tested in smaller subsets of the Study Area and the overall results (i.e., how many of the
       tested properties required mitigation versus not) without revealing any particular
       addresses or otherwise personally identifiable information. EPA is working to develop
       these maps in an effort to balance the community’s desire for transparency with
       individual rights to privacy.
       The representative from NYSDOH went on to explain that New York has tenant
       notification laws which require building owners to share any results that are above state
       guidelines with tenants, and the state encourages property owners to share the results with
       all building occupants and tenants.
       To expand upon what was stated at the meeting, when EPA conducts vapor intrusion
       sampling at a property, EPA will provide the results to both the tenant whose unit was
       sampled and the landlord. If a common area is sampled, that data will be provided to any
       tenant that has access to that common area. A copy of the data and EPA’s assessment
       will be provided to any / all other tenants in the building proactively if EPA determines
       that mitigation is required for the building based on indoor air testing data impacts from a
       public space inside of the building (i.e., common laundry room or basement).
       Alternatively, a tenant may ask the building owner for a copy of the vapor intrusion data.
       Also note that all of the vapor intrusion data that EPA collects or generates will
       eventually be shared in the Remedial Investigation report that is developed for the site.
       However, the data will not be reported with any personally identifiable information
       shared. The exact details of how the data will be reported in the report has not yet been
       determined.


Comment 35: A community member asked EPA to explain broadly what the cancer and non-
cancer health risks are for TCE and PCE. A separate request was made that EPA explain the
risks in easy-to-understand terms when a written response is provided.
       EPA Response 35: TCE is classified by EPA as carcinogenic to humans by all routes of
       exposure and can cause effects to the central nervous system, kidneys, liver, immune
       system and to developing fetus. PCE is classified by EPA as likely to be carcinogenic to
       humans by all routes of exposure and can cause nervous system and ocular effects.

       To expand upon what was said at the meeting, EPA quantifies risk at a Superfund Site by
       conducting an analysis of the potential adverse health effects caused by hazardous
       substance releases from the Site in the absence of any actions to control or mitigate these
       releases under current and anticipated future land use. A four-step process is utilized for
       assessing site-related human health risks for a reasonable maximum exposure scenario:

              •   Hazard Identification – uses the analytical data collected to identify the
                  contaminants of potential concern at the Site for each medium, with
                  consideration of a number of factors explained below;
              •   Exposure Assessment - estimates the magnitude of actual and/or potential
                  human exposures, the frequency and duration of these exposures, and the
                  pathways (e.g., ingesting contaminated well-water) by which humans are
                  potentially exposed;
              •   Toxicity Assessment - determines the types of adverse health effects associated
                  with chemical exposures, and the relationship between magnitude of exposure
                  (dose) and severity of adverse effects (response); and
              •   Risk Characterization - summarizes and combines outputs of the exposure and
                  toxicity assessments to provide a quantitative assessment of site-related risks.
                  The risk characterization also identifies contamination with concentrations
                  which exceed acceptable levels, defined by the NCP as an excess lifetime
                  cancer risk greater than 1 x 10-6 to 1 x 10-4 or a noncancer Hazard Index greater
                  than 1; contaminants at these concentrations are considered chemicals of
                  concern and are typically those that will require remediation at the Site. Also
                  included in this section is a discussion of the uncertainties associated with these
                  risks.

       For more information on risk and how it’s quantified, please see the “What is Risk and
       How is it Calculated” information box on page 6 of the proposed plan or the “Summary
       of Site Risks” section of the ROD.
       Overall, in order for risk to occur, there needs to be exposure. So if there is contamination
       under the ground but the vapors are not entering a structure and it is not otherwise
       available for exposure, then there is no risk from that contamination. The NCP defines
       site-related cancer risks that exceed 1 x 10-4 (or one in ten thousand) as unacceptable. To
       help visualize what a 1 x 10-4 risk means, consider a pool that is filled with ten thousand
       green marbles and a single red marble; the red marble would represent the one in a ten
       thousand excess cancer cases.
Comment 36: A member of the Newtown Creek Alliance asked what EPA is actually proposing
here and whether any steps towards any real remediation of the contamination as opposed to just
getting the vapors out of structures.
       EPA Response 36: The action described in the Proposed Plan is a mitigative action to
       prevent exposure to site-related contamination in indoor air. It is an interim measure to
       protect people’s health who are being impacted by the contamination while a long-term
       solution to addressing the sources is being developed. The site is being investigated on
       two parallel tracks, one related to the sources of the contamination and the other related
       to mitigation. This Record of Decision gives EPA the ability to take mitigative measures
       while the sources of the contamination are investigated and remedial alternatives are
       developed.
       As of the time of the meeting, EPA had not yet identified any properties that required
       mitigation. It was noted that EPA’s removal program could be used as a stop-gap
       measure, if needed, to conduct mitigative measures until a ROD is signed. Since the time
       of the meeting two properties were identified that require the installation of sub-slab
       mitigation systems, and EPA’s removal program will be installing those early this fall.
Comment 37: Community members asked about timing, in particular the timeline is for the full
OU1 RI/FS and why EPA estimated a 5-year time period for this action.
       EPA Response 37: EPA does not yet have a final timeline for the full OU1 RI/FS
       process, but it will take a time to reach a decision and then implement the selected
       remedy. An initial round of groundwater sampling from existing wells was conducted in
       2023 and the results of this will help to determine data gaps and where additional wells
       need to be installed. The RI/FS will proceed in a stepwise manner like this, and we will
       develop and continue to refine the overall schedule as we go.
       The OU2 Proposed Plan and ROD state that sampling and mitigation will be conducted
       on an ongoing basis for a period of at least five years. A five-year time period was
       selected for budgetary purposes. However, this does not limit EPA from sampling and
       mitigating properties beyond the five-year timeframe.
Comment 38: A community member representing North Brooklyn Neighbors commented that
they very much appreciate EPA saying that they look at things on an individual basis but asked
that this be recognized in a more formal way, particularly for those that may not trust EPA
completely.
   EPA Response 38: EPA acknowledges the community’s concern. To supplement what was
   said at the meeting, language has been added to the ROD stating this more clearly.
   Specifically, the ROD includes the following text:
       •   Whether to apply the residential RAL or Commercial/Industrial RAL will be
           determined on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with NYSDEC and NYSDOH. In
           general, EPA understands that many properties that are zoned for non-residential use
           may be used, either regularly or from time-to-time, in what would be more consistent
           with residential exposure assumptions. The residential RALs may be used at any
           property, residential or non-residential, if there is any reason to believe the
           commercial/industrial RALs are not sufficiently conservative, either under current or
           reasonably anticipated future use scenarios.


       •   While stated in the Proposed Plan, this Record of Decision memorializes that RALs
           will be considered with other Site-specific lines of evidence such as subsurface
           geology and hydrogeology, the structural characteristics of each building, and
           proximity to other impacted structures in determining whether there is a need for
           remedial action. The need for remedial action will also be determined in consultation
           with NYSDEC and the NYSDOH, including consideration of NYSDOH’s Guidance
           for Evaluating Soil Vapor Intrusion in the State of New York.


Comment 39: A community member asked whether EPA tests strictly in the winter months or is
it possible to test a basement where there’s not much air flow even during warmer weather?
       EPA Response 39: EPA noted that testing can occur outside of the winter heating season
       but that the results are not definitive. If elevated concentrations are found, then there is
       likely an issue, but if elevated concentrations are not found, additional testing would still
       be needed in the winter. Please also refer to EPA Response 13.
Comment 40: A community member asked EPA if there are any limitations on the amount of
testing that can be done during a given time period, particularly due to laboratory constraints.
       EPA Response 40: Since vapor intrusion sampling is generally conducted during a
       limited time of year, laboratory capacity can be an issue. However, since the sampling for
       this site is being planned in advance, EPA is working with the laboratories to secure
       sufficient space ahead of time to minimize any potential delays.
Comment 41: A community member asked if cost plays a factor in our selection of RALs that
differ from the State’s RALs.

       EPA Response 41: Cost did not play a factor in our selection of RALs for this site.

Comment 42: A community member asked EPA who will physically install the mitigation
systems if they are required at a property. They asked if EPA does it directly, if EPA has a
contractor, or can the property owner do it themselves under the guidance of the agency?
       EPA Response 42: Any mitigation systems will be installed by a qualified contractor
       who is conducting the work under EPA oversight.
Comment 43: A community member commented that there were only two remedies looked at
and asked EPA if there are other options that exist or technologies.
       EPA Response 43: The use of a sub-slab depressurization system is a proven technology
       that has shown to be effective at mitigating vapor intrusion at both residential and
       commercial properties. The alternative includes additional mitigative measures, like the
sealing of cracks, which may be needed/appropriate. Other approaches would not be as
effective and were not considered.
                            APPENDIX V

                    RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY
Attachment A- Written Comments Submitted During Public Comment Period
                                 COMMUNITY BOARD No. 1
                                 435 GRAHAM AVENUE - BROOKLYN, NY 11211- 8813
                                             PHONE: (718) 389-0009
                                               FAX: (718) 389-0098
                                            Email: bk01@cb.nyc.gov
                                        Website: www.nyc.gov/brooklyncb1
                                                          HON. ERIC L. ADAMS
                                                     BROOKLYN BOROUGH PRESIDENT

                                   DEALICE FULLER                         HON. LINCOLN RESTLER
SIMON WEISER
FIRST VICE-CHAIRMAN
                                    CHAIRPERSON                           COUNCILMEMBER, 33rd CD

DEL TEAGUE
SECOND VICE-CHAIRPERSON           JOHANA PULGARIN                         HON. JENNIFER GUTIERREZ
                                  DISTRICT MANAGER                        COUNCILMEMBER, 34th CD
GINA BARROS
THIRD VICE-CHAIRPERSON
DAVID HEIMLICH
FINANCIAL SECRETARY
SONIA IGLESIAS
RECORDING SECRETARY
PHILIP A. CAPONEGRO
MEMBER-AT-LARGE




                                                                               June 21, 2024

          Rupika Ketu
          Remedial Project Manager
          US Environmental Protection Agency
          290 Broadway, 18th Floor,
          New York, NY 10007
          ketu.rupika@epa.gov

                                        Re: Comments regarding a proposed cleanup plan
                                            for potential indoor air contamination at
                                            the Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site

         Dear Ms. Ketu,

         At the regular meeting of Brooklyn Community Board No. 1 held the evening of June 18, 2024,
         the board members voted to support sending this letter.

         The vote was as follows: 33” YES” 0” NO”; 0” Abstentions”.

         Please accept the following comments regarding a proposed cleanup plan for potential indoor air
         contamination at the Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site.

          This project is of the utmost concern, not only due the breadth, severity and complexity of the
         Meeker Avenue Plume contamination, but because this Superfund site resides solely within the
         confines of Brooklyn Community District #1. This concern is bolstered by the long history of
         toxic sites that have existed and presently exist in this district which includes the Greenpoint Oil
         Spill, the Newtown Creek Superfund site, the Nuhart Factory Superfund site, the extensive fossil
         contamination needing remediation at Bushwick Inlet Park, several manufactured gas plant
         cleanups and the seemingly endless stream of brownfield cleanup sites here. Generations of


                                                           1
district residents are fed up and feel beaten down from weathering through this hazardous and
damaging legacy.

Therefore, Brooklyn Community Board #1 takes issue with what we feel are weak parameters set
in place related to the proposed remedy for potential contaminated indoor spaces. EPA Remedial
Action Levels (RALs) being used for the 2 primary contaminants of concern, Trichloroethene
(TCE) and Tetrachloroethene (PCE), are 1) lower than New York State Department of
Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) RALs for TCE and PCE and 2) are less stringent for
commercial properties where NYSDEC uses one RAL for both residential and commercial
properties, in creating the threshold in which the proposed remedy of installing a sub-slab
depressurization system would be deployed.

We feel strongly that EPA must use the more stringent RALs that New York State provides and
not seek waivers to override them. It is normal and pervasive for workers in commercial work
environments to spend more time (very often more than 10 hours) at their workplace than at their
home. It is imperative that residents and workers in our district receive the same level of
protection.

Considering our district’s epic environmental history, we urge the EPA to work with the deepest
level of safety and remedy possible which lends itself to the use of the state’s more stringent and
further reaching contamination level limits.

Working for a Safer Williamsburg/ Greenpoint.
                                                                     Sincerely,


                                                                    Dealice Fuller
                                                                    Chairperson


Cc: Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez
    Senator Kristen Gonzalez
    Assemblymember Emily Gallagher
    Borough President Antonio Reynoso
    Council Member Lincoln Restler
    Council Member Jennifer Gutierrez




                                                 2
                                   COMMUNITY BOARD No. 1
                                   435 GRAHAM AVENUE - BROOKLYN, NY 11211- 8813
                                               PHONE: (718) 389-0009
                                                 FAX: (718) 389-0098
                                              Email: bk01@cb.nyc.gov
                                          Website: www.nyc.gov/brooklyncb1
                                                           HON. ANTONIO REYNOSO
                                                        BROOKLYN BOROUGH PRESIDENT

                                      DEALICE FULLER                          HON. LINCOLN RESTLER
SIMON WEISER
FIRST VICE-CHAIRMAN
                                       CHAIRPERSON                           COUNCILMEMBER, 33rd CD

DEL TEAGUE
SECOND VICE-CHAIRPERSON              JOHANA PULGARIN                         HON. JENNIFER GUTIERREZ
                                     DISTRICT MANAGER                        COUNCILMEMBER, 34th CD
GINA BARROS
THIRD VICE-CHAIRPERSON
DAVID HEIMLICH
FINANCIAL SECRETARY
SONIA IGLESIAS
RECORDING SECRETARY
PHILIP A. CAPONEGRO
MEMBER-AT-LARGE
                                                                                       June 18, 2024

                                             COMMITTEE REPORT
                                          Environmental Protection Committee

                          TO:      Chairperson Fuller and CB1 Board Members

                          FROM:    Mr. Stephen Chesler, Committee Chair
                                   Environmental Protection Committee

                     RE:       Committee Report from June 6, 2024
         ______________________________________________________________________________
         The Committee met on the Evening of June 6, 2024, at 6:00 PM at McCarren Play Center, 776
         Lorimer St, Brooklyn, NY 11222.

         Members: Chesler, Chair; Bruzaitis; Costa; Horowitz; Peterson; Sabel; Vega; Hofmann*;
         Stewart* (*) Non board committee member.

         Present:           Chesler, Bruzaitis, Vega, Weiser (Ad Hoc), Hofmann*
         Absent:            Costa, Horowitz, Peterson, Sabel, Stewart*

         5 members present. A quorum was achieved.
         ____________________________________________________________________________


                                                         MEETING


         1) NATIONAL GRID - NEWTOWN CREEK RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY
         RENEWABLE NATURAL GAS SYSTEM - Operational update provided by the National
         Grid team. - On June 4th, 2024, National Grid informed the board that they would not be
         attending the meeting due to other obligations. Per the board’s request, they submitted a report
         regarding the functionality of the Renewable Natural Gas System (RNG). It was not received in
         time to discuss at the meeting.
Discussion:

Willis Elkins (Executive Director, Newtown Creek Alliance): National Grid is the midst of a rate
case with the state. Included in their funding requirement is investment in the RNG system at the
DEP Newtown Resource Recovery Facility (NCRRF). It also includes creating 4 new RNG
systems at other facilities in the City. Rate payers would subsidize these. Newtown Creek Alliance
is involved with the case. Environmental justice issues are at play here. Regular community
meetings about these facilities should be a requirement vs just an annual report that is currently
being provided. Air quality monitoring should be a requirement both for the system when it is
offline and online. DEP provides a very general system status on their website. He suggested the
City article covering this issue being included in the letter to our elected officials.

Steve Chesler: Is state and or city legislation required to force the DEP and NG to be more
thoroughly accountable, transparent and compliant?
Christine Holowacz: This has been a 10-year project. They should be able to transform energy into
electricity. Steve Chesler: Is it a lack of will? Money? Christine Holowacz: Probably a lack of
technology. Many elements are not working. Steve Chesler: Should the board write to our elective
officials about this? We are getting nowhere communicating with DEP and National Grid directly.
Willis Elkins: Yes and attach The City article that covered this issue. Steve Chesler: …and the
meeting letter. Laura Hofmann: Require transparency including a detailed list of items.

Laura Hofmann: What are our elected officials doing to increase standards for air quality? They
seem to be biased towards developers instead of the community.

Also, attached is a status report from National Grid sent to the board 20 minutes prior to the
meeting start.

Motion made by Steve Chesler - To recommend the board submit the attached letter as
written, to our elected officals at the federal, state, and city levels, to demand the Department
of Environmental Protection and National Grid provide regular details on the functionality
and repair of the Newtown Creek Resource Recovery Facility and air quality analysis there,
and if necessary initiate legislation to enforce the providing of this data to the public and
Brookly Community Board #1.

Second: William Vega

The vote was as follows:

3 “YES”; 0 “NO”; 0 “ABS”

Consensus recommendation passes.

2) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY SEEKS PUBLIC COMMENT ON A
PROPOSED CLEANUP PLAN FOR POTENTIAL INDOOR AIR CONTAMINATION AT
THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE - Public Comment Period extended
through June 25, 2024. Review the proposal and recommend comments. See the attached
supporting summary documentation.

                                                2
Due to the complexity of the contamination, two years ago the Meeker Avenue Plume site was
accepted to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) National Priorities List after existing
as a state superfund site for many years prior. Composed of approximately 900 properties, a mix
of residential, commercial and industrial uses, the site’s current extent is generally bordered by
Bridgewater Street to the north, Monitor Street to the west, Frost Street, Withers Street and
Lombardy Street to the south and Newtown Creek to the east. The two primary contaminants of
concern are Trichloroethylene (TCE) and Tetrachloroethylene (PCE), both chlorinated volatile
organic compounds. Both chemicals pose a significant threat to human health and are known as
carcinogens and endocrine disruptors. It is estimated that prime sources of contamination were
industrial dry-cleaning operations. As part of the project Remedial Investigation (RI) the EPA has
been performing extensive testing through existing DEC monitoring wells and is considering
creating additional ones. Based on this analysis they will be presenting a new site map with
adjusted borders. Property testing has had a very low participation rate as property owners are not
volunteering to opt in. Since residents and tenants are at great risk, the EPA is considering
measures to gain access to these properties.

For indoor contamination the EPA has proposed a remedy for which they are seeking public
comment until June 25, 2024. They are offering installation of sub-slab depressurization systems
in the basements of site properties determined to exceed Remedial Action Levels, whereby air
under building slabs is forced up and out through a ventilation system above affected buildings.

Discussion:

Steve Chesler reported that during the EPA’s remedy proposal presentation on April 16, 2024,
Willis Elkins noted that the EPA’s Remedial Action Levels for TCE and PCE were less stringent
than DEC’s levels. And, that EPA allows for higher levels of these compounds on commercial
sites versus residential sites. DEC does not have different thresholds set for residential and
commercial sites. Christine Holowacz noted at that meeting and during our meeting, that the time
many workers spend on the job at a commercial property is probably at least the same amount of
time spent at home or more, often more than the 10-hour threshold that the EPA uses for
commercial properties.

William Vega reported that at least 5 property owners he encountered were approached by EPA
contractor workers who did not have identification to verify who they were. This poses a security
risk.

Motion made by Steve Chesler - to recommend the board submit the attached comment to
the Environmental Protection Agency regarding their proposed Meeker Avenue Plume
Superfund remedy for interior spaces, requesting they adhere to the more stringent NYS
Department of Environmental Conservation vapor intrusion chemical contamination
thresholds that 1) require using their deeper New York Stater Remedial Actions Levels for
TCE and PCE instead of the higher levels allowed and used by the EPA, and 2) require
residential and commercial spaces utilize the same Remedial Action Levels instead of using
higher levels for commercial spaces.

Second by William Vega.

The vote was as follows:
                                                3
3 “YES”; 0 “NO”; 0 “ABS”

Consensus recommendation passes.

3) EXXONMOBIL GREENPOINT PETROLEUM REMEDIATION PROJECT
(EMGPRP) SPDES PERMIT MODIFICATION - The Proposed Project will consolidate two
existing groundwater treatment facilities associated with the EMGPRP into a new groundwater
treatment facility to be constructed at 38 Varick Street, Brooklyn, NY 11222. Review the proposal
and recommend comments. Presentation file is attached.

ExxonMobil and its environmental contractor Roux have been remediating the Greenpoint Oil
Spill in eastern Greenpoint since 1978 when the spill was discovered leaking into Newtown Creek
covering more than 50 acres of land along the creek. Since the settlement of a lawsuit brought on
by a group of residents, Riverkeeper and the New York State Attorney General in 2010, this
process has been expedited. Approximately 13.45 million gallons of an estimated 17 million
gallons of oil have been removed.

Representatives from ExxonMobil and Roux presented and spoke about their State Pollution
Discharge Elimination System (SPDES) modification proposal (file attached). Madelyn Wilson,
Environmental Project Manager, ExxonMobil; Kevin Thompson, Public & Government Affairs,
ExxonMobil; Courtney Lind, Staff Assistant Engineer, Roux Associates; Justin Kennedy, Senior
Engineer, Roux Associates.

Full remediation process involves 20 recovery wells for removing oil products, groundwater
treatment and discharge, and soil vapor extraction.

Product recovery has decreased from a high of over 800,000 gallons of product extracted in 2009
to approximately 50,000 gallons in 2023. Out of the 13.45 million gallons of product removed to
date, ExxonMobil has removed 9.5 million gallons.

Regarding groundwater treatment, two existing groundwater treatment systems, one at 400
Kingsland Avenue and the other located at 5 Bridgewater Street, extract groundwater with
dissolved hydrocarbons and treat the water to NYSDEC standards. The treated groundwater is then
discharged into Newtown Creek at two permitted outfalls: Outfall 001 at 400 Kingsland Avenue
and Outfall 002 at the foot of Meeker Avenue. The groundwater systems treat and discharge
approximately 1,000,000 gallons of groundwater per day, with treatment consisting of: metals
removal (aeration, sand filters, filter press); air stripping and process air treatment.

SPDES permit modification proposal:

   ● Modify the SPDES permit to account for changes to the treatment and discharge process
     for treated water from the product recovery system.

   ● Relocate and consolidate the two existing groundwater treatment systems into a new
     system at 38 Varick Street.


                                               4
   ● This single treatment facility will be designed to handle the combined flow from all
     existing recovery wells and maintain compliance with the SPDES discharge limits.

   ● Discharge of the treated water will occur through the existing Outfall 002 at the northern
     end of Meeker Avenue.

Objectives are the optimization of the long-term operational efficiency of the groundwater
treatment system and reducing operational footprint of the ExxonMobil remedial systems.

Potential Impacts:

New Facility Construction from November 2024 – April 2026 (approximately 1.5 years) plus
Long-term Operations & Maintenance.

During construction: impacts are expected to be typical of new building construction
   ● Intermittent periods of increased traffic
   ● Traffic management plan to be utilized
   ● Potential nuisance, dust, odors and noise produced by intermittent heavy construction
       equipment
   ● Community Air Monitoring Program (CAMP) to be utilized

Long-term:
   ● Operations and Maintenance activities will produce background mechanical noise.
   ● All equipment will be installed within the walls of the new facility, the potential for
       nuisance noise to exist outside of the facility is minimal.
   ● Periodic material deliveries and operational waste removal will result in an intermittent
       increase in activity at the 38 Varick Street property.

As is required by the state permitting process, ExxonMobil must hold public meetings and compile
public comments. After submission of their application that includes public input, DEC will open
its own public comment period. No set timeline for either.

Discussion:

Steve Chesler: Is the discharged groundwater replaced? Is there a concern that subsidence will
occur above treated areas? Keving Thompson: It is not being replaced. Groundwater is pervasive.
Courtney Lind: They are monitoring this.

Laura Hofmann: What kind of odors are being noticed? How are they being monitored? Courtney
Lind: Through the CAMP system. If odors are significant during construction, foam treatment will
be used.

Laura Hofmann: What does long term groundwater treatment mean? Kevin Thompson: DEC will
determine when completion is reached. Liquid product recovery extraction is slowing and has
leveled, but still continuing. Justin Kennedy: We will continue until DEC makes a determination.

                                               5
Kelly McCabe: Will nuisance noise from construction be severe? Courtney Lind: No.

Christine Hołowacz: Regarding future use of 400 Kingsland Avenue site after that groundwater
treatment facility is decommissioned? Have you determined a future use of the site? Kevin
Thompson: This issue is beyond the scope of this meeting and the permit modification, but we will
report this question back to the company and DEC. Kevin LaCherra: Would argue that the future
use of 400 Kingsland is very relevant, and dependent is a way, to the SPDES permit modification
application. It is approximately 10 acres that could be repurposed for something other than it being
sold for industrial or manufacturing uses. Its severe contamination rightly causes intense concern.
There is an ongoing environmental justice fight in this neighborhood. We should take pause if
resilient design or purpose is not a prime consideration. Madelyn Wilson: We have nothing else to
share about this. Kevin Thompson: The consolidation is happening, but we will take these
comments back to ExxonMobil. Christine Holawacz: Exxon should consider community needs
and what is honorable. Not more trucks. We have been so impacted by the spill. Kevin Thompson:
All comments made must be included in their report to Exxon and DEC. Jason Sinopoli: What
agencies will help decide (the use of this land)? Heidi Vanderlee: This feels wrong. Simon Weiser:
Exxon has already paid for the cleanup. Why do they need to do more? Laura Hofmann: She
disagrees. She and her family have experienced years of health issues. She was one of the original
plaintiffs (in the suit against Exxon).

Shangton Lee (Newtown Creek Alliance): Has an analysis been performed on the carbon footprint
and sustainability of the old facilities and the new one? Floodplain analysis for 400 Kingsland vs
38 Varick new facility location? Kevin Thompson: Lessons have been learned that are informing
the design of the new facility.

Bess: Have you evaluated flood considerations? Erosion? Justin Kennedy: Exxon stabilized the
Meeker Ave Street end.

Steve Chesler: Are the 2 existing systems dependent on one another, especially during
maintenance of one of the systems? Justin Kennedy: the new system will have redundancy built
into it.

Willis Elkins: Will construction result in the removal of trees and/or planted areas? Kevin
Thompson: Removed species will be replaced.

Steve Chesler: Appeals to Exxon to consider the community considering the Greenpoint-
Williamsburg rezoning and commitments not fulfilled, and Exxon’s history (required remediation
of the undeveloped sections of Bushwick Inlet Park from Standard Oil contamination footprint, its
pollution footprint with the Newtown Creek Superfund site and the oil spill. Climate mitigation is
a primary concern for this district, especially since the US Army Corps of Engineers’ NYNJHATS
Storm Risk Management Plan fell significantly short in its design for our district.

Kevin LaCherra: Recovered product is being repurposed by state requirement. 9.5 million gallons
since 1979. Multi Millions in return. Kevin Thompson: Enormous burden in recovering product
results in no profit for Exxonmobil. Madelyn Wilson: 100-year-old product results in intense
degradation. It is not being utilized, only recycled or disposed of. Kevin Thompson: It is valueless
to Exxon, to pay to have it taken off their hands.

                                                 6
Shangton Lee: Regarding OU2, have potential negative impacts of the new facility been analyzed?
Justin Kennedy: An evaluation must be submitted. Shangton Lee: What is the life expectancy of
the new equipment? Justin Kennedy: Approximately 25 years. Shangton Lee: Will another facility
be needed at that point? Justin Kennedy: If necessary. Kevin Thompson: DEC will determine what
we will need to do here.

Sarah Durand: Current is in a floodplain. Is this being considered? Kevin Thompson: The entire
site is. Yes. Sarah Durand: A tidal wetland was filled in here in 1982? Kevin Thompson: 1982.

William Vega: No profit should be made (on the 400 Kingsland Ave site). There should be a public
benefit. Residents paid with blood (for the negative effects of this site). Willis Elkins: We have
been on divergent paths for a long time, but we are better now than we were 20 years ago. 400
Kingsland Ave offers an opportunity for collaboration between ExxonMobil and the community.

Motion by Steve Chesler to recommend the board submit the following comment along with
a copy of the June 6th, 2024 the Environmental Protection Committee report, to ExxonMobil
and NYSDEC regarding the SPDES Permit Modification Proposal to consolidate
ExxonMobil’s Greenpoint Oil Spill Product Recovery Operation, copying federal, state and
city elected representatives:

   1) ExxonMobil perform due diligence and beyond with mitigating potential construction
      operation hazards including but limited to air monitoring, noise, dust, odors and
      construction related traffic
   2) ExxonMobil replace all trees and planted areas removed and damaged during
      construction of the new treatment facility at 38 Varick Street
   3) ExxonMobil strongly consider future public and resilient uses for 400 Kingsland Ave
      after its water treatment facility there is dismantled, that will help sustain and heal
      the community from decades of environmental degradation at multiple sites currently
      and previously owned by ExxonMobil and its historic acquired subsidiaries in
      Brooklyn Community District #1
   4) ExxonMobil work to be a better partner and to improve its relations with the
      community

Second by William Vega.

The vote was as follows:

5 “YES”; 0 “NO”; 0 “ABS”

Motion carries.

Meeting adjourned.




                                                7
                                      EPA SEEKS PUBLIC COMMENT ON A PROPOSED CLEANUP
                                      PLAN FOR POTENTIAL INDOOR AIR CONTAMINATION AT
                                      THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE
                                      BROOKLYN, NEW YORK

                                     APRIL 2024


The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is asking
the public for input on its proposed plan to address the                     Get Involved!
potential vapors that may be entering into residential and
commercial buildings at the Meeker Avenue Plume                      Public Meeting Date:
Superfund site, which is located on approximately 191 acres          Tuesday, April 16, 2024, 6:00 p.m.
across several city blocks in the East Williamsburg and
Greenpoint neighborhoods of Brooklyn, New York. The soil,            Location:
soil gas and groundwater at the site are contaminated with           St. Stanislaus Kostka Lower Church
chlorinated volatile organic compounds (CVOCs), including            607 Humboldt St., Brooklyn, NY
tetrachloroethylene (PCE) and trichloroethylene (TCE).
                                                                     More information:
                                                                     https://www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-
  EPA’s Proposed Cleanup Plan                                        plume
EPA’s proposed cleanup plan for addressing indoor air
                                                                     Contact: Anna Drabek, 212-637-3586,
concerns due to site-related vapors that may be entering
                                                                     drabek.anna@epa.gov
structures (vapor intrusion) involves installing mitigation
systems called sub-slab depressurization systems where
needed. Under the proposed plan, where EPA’s evaluations
determine it is necessary, EPA would install sub-slab
depressurization systems and may also take preventative
measures such as the sealing of cracks and gaps in the
lowest level of a structure, where necessary. Sub-slab
depressurization involves connecting an electric fan to a                   Public Comment Period
small suction pit dug into the slab that will vent vapors
outdoors above the building’s roofline.                             The proposed cleanup plan is available for public
                                                                    comment from April 5 to May 10, 2024. The
EPA developed this plan in consultation with the New York           public is encouraged to review the plan, attend
State Department of Environmental Conservation                      the public meeting, and comment on the cleanup
(NYSDEC) and the New York State Department of Health.               alternatives.

                                                                    To provide comments to EPA:

  Chlorinated volatile organic compounds                            Read the document online at
  (CVOCs) including tetrachloroethylene (PCE),                      www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-plume
  trichloroethylene (TCE), cis-1,2-dichloroethylene (DCE),
  and vinyl chloride, are man-made chemicals that                    Send your comments to Rupika Ketu,
  evaporate at room temperature and are associated with              ketu.rupika@epa.gov, or 290 Broadway, 18th
  a higher risk of reproductive effects and cancer after             Floor, New York, NY 10007
  prolonged exposure.
                                                                     EPA must receive your comments by
  Learn more about PCE, TCE, DCE, and vinyl chloride                 May 10, 2024.
  from the New York State Department of Health.

                                                                                                  *744534*
                                                                                                        744534
  www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-plume | https://www.facebook.com/eparegion2/ | https://twitter.com/EPA region2
                                                                   THE SUPERFUND REMEDIAL
                                                                   PROCESS
Past Cleanup Activities




                                                                                                                                  Community involvement and planning for a site’ s redevelopment are integral to the entire process
                                                                                 ASSESSMENT
 EPA added the Meeker Avenue site to the Superfund
 National Priorities List (NPL) in March 2022. NYSDEC
 sampled over 160 properties since 2007, before EPA’s                      Discovery of
 involvement. EPA is assessing the level of                                Contamination
 contamination and its impacts to people’s health.
                                                                           Preliminary
 As of December 2023, EPA sampled underneath and                           Assessment
 inside of 18 residential structures, 11 public housing
 buildings, and one public school. EPA has results that                    Site Inspection
 show no further action is needed at 15 of the residential
 properties, the 11 public housing buildings, and the
 public school. Three of the residential properties will                   National Priorities List
 require additional monitoring. In addition, in February
                                                                           (NPL) Site Listing
 and March 2024, EPA sampled 18 properties and will
 be evaluating the results, and will be conducting
 additional sampling in the future. Because prior                          CHARACTERIZATION
 sampling from NYSDEC did detect CVOC vapors                               Remedial Investigation/
 inside several dozen properties, the state installed
 mitigation systems to handle the vapors.                                  Feasibility Study & Proposed
                                                                           Plan

                                                                            SELECTION OF REMEDY
         Where to Find More Information
                                                                           Record of Decision
EPA keeps site project information and reference
materials for the public to read online and at local
information repositories.                                                        CLEANUP
                                                                         Remedial Design
Copies of cleanup documents for the Meeker Avenue
Plume Superfund site will be available at:
                                                                        Remedial Action



                                                                                                              Five-Year Reviews
EPA Region 2 Superfund Records Center
290 Broadway, 18th Floor
New York, New York                                                         POST-CONSTRUCTION
Greenpoint Library                                                       Operation and Maintenance
107 Norman Avenue
Brooklyn, NY
                                                                           NPL Deletion



                                            EPA Contact Information
  Anna Drabek                               Rupika Ketu                       John Brennan
  Community Involvement Coordinator         Remedial Project Manager          Remedial Project Manager
  212-637-3586 or 919-656-3417              (212) 637-3258                    (212) 637-3881
  Drabek.Anna@epa.gov                       Ketu.Rupika@epa.gov               Brennan.John.F@epa.gov



www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-plume | https://www.facebook.com/eparegion2/ | https://twitter.com/EPA region2
                                                                           Rev 04.09.2024


    ExxonMobil Greenpoint Petroleum Remediation Project
                SPDES Permit Modification
                        Fact Sheet
    Project: ExxonMobil Greenpoint Petroleum Remediation Project (EMGPRP)
    Applicant: ExxonMobil Oil Corporation.
    Facility: 38 Varick Street, Brooklyn, New York 11222.
    NYSDEC Application Number: SPDES NY 0267724
    A Public Participation Plan (PPP) has been developed in accordance with NYSDEC
     Commissioner Policy 29, Environmental Justice and Permitting (CP-29)
What is the Proposed Project?
The Proposed Project will consolidate two existing groundwater treatment facilities associated with the
EMGPRP into a new groundwater treatment facility to be constructed at 38 Varick Street, Brooklyn, NY
11222. To implement the proposed project, ExxonMobil Oil Corporation has submitted an application
for a modification to its existing State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (SPDES) permit to the
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC). The applicant is also going to
submit an application for modification of its existing Long Island Well permit to allow for the relocation
of certain recovery wells. The purpose of this fact sheet is to inform the public about this proposed
project and to involve the community during the NYSDEC permit application review process.

ExxonMobil Oil Corporation proposes to modify its existing SPDES permit to allow for the modified
discharge resulting from the relocation and consolidation of the two active groundwater treatment
systems to a new groundwater treatment facility to be located at 38 Varick Street. Subsequent to the
consolidation, treated effluent will only discharge from Outfall 002. ExxonMobil Oil Corporation also
proposes to modify its Long Island Well permit to reflect the operational status and locations of recovery
wells associated with the EMGPRP.

How might the project affect the surrounding community?
The potential impacts surrounding the construction of a new groundwater treatment facility at 38 Varick
Street are expected to be typical of a new building construction. The existing RCS and ORS treatment
buildings will be decommissioned following construction and start-up of the new facility. The new
system will support long-term operations and remediation activities in accordance with the Site’s
Consent Decree. For clarity, the potential impacts have been categorized based on construction
impacts (construction of new facility) and operational impacts (long-term operation of the new treatment
facility):

The construction-based impacts are expected to be typical of new building construction and are
expected to conclude within 1.5 years of groundbreaking. Impacts are expected to include:
     •   Potential intermittent periods of increased traffic due to equipment and material deliveries, as
         well as disposal of excavated soils and construction debris.
     •   Potential nuisance, dust, odors and noise produced by intermittent heavy construction
         equipment use during demolition and construction activities.
         o A Community Air Monitoring Program (CAMP) will be developed for all phases of the new
           facility’s construction. The program will outline monitoring, response, and mitigation
           procedures to be implemented during construction. This program is intended to reduce the
                                                                           Rev 04.09.2024

          likelihood of potential nuisance dust, odor or noise events occurring that would potentially
          affect the public.

The long-term operational impacts potentially include:
   •   Operations and Maintenance activities (once operational) will produce background mechanical
       noise. However, as all equipment will be installed within the walls of the new facility, the
       potential for nuisance noise to exist outside of the facility is minimal.
   •   Periodic material deliveries and operational waste removal will result in an intermittent increase
       in activity at the 38 Varick Street property.

How can I participate in the permit review process?
   Attend the upcoming virtual public meeting scheduled for May 9th, 2024 at 6:30 pm to learn about
     the project, ask questions and/or express concerns about the project.
      Ask questions, express concerns, provide input or submit by comments in writing, by phone or
       email to the project contact person identified below.

Where can I get more information about the proposed project?
   Visit the online document repository at: https://bit.ly/3vIqIWW to obtain application materials,
     relevant documents, and information about the project.
      Contact Kevin M. Thompson by phone at: (718) 404-0675, by email at:
       kevin.m.thompson@exxonmobil.com or in writing at: 38 Varick Street, Brooklyn, New York
       11222 for information on the project, instructions on how to attend the upcoming virtual public
       meeting, or to find out about the status of the permit application and public comment period.

Who is responsible for reviewing the Permit Application?
   NYSDEC Region 2 Headquarters, 47-40 21st St., Long Island City, NY 11101, is responsible for
      reviewing and issuing the required permit modification. Tel: (718) 482-4997; email:
      DEP.R2@dec.ny.gov
June 6, 2024

Industrial SPDES Permit Modification
NY 0267724
Brooklyn CB1 Environmental Committee


ExxonMobil Greenpoint Petroleum Remediation Project
Introductions / Agenda
Introductions
• Madelyn Wilson – ExxonMobil
• Kevin Thompson - ExxonMobil
• Courtney Lind – Roux
                                        400 Kingsland Ave
• Justin Kennedy – Roux

Agenda:
• EMGPRP Project Overview
• SPDES Permit Modification
    • Project Overview & Background
    • Proposed Scope of Work
    • Potential Impacts, Mitigation
        Measures and Project Schedule                38 Varick St
• Questions & Answers                                               5 Bridgewater St
EMGPRP Remediation Project Overview
• ExxonMobil is conducting the remediation project to address releases of petroleum products from
  its historical operations. All work is performed under the regulatory oversight of the New York
  State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC)

• Liquid product recovery is accomplished via a system of recovery wells which extract hydrocarbons
  in liquid form and send the liquid product to recycling facilities

• Groundwater containing dissolved product is also recovered and sent to two different groundwater
  treatment systems for treatment to NYSDEC standards, then discharged into Newtown Creek under
  an existing SPDES permit issued by NYSDEC

• Soil vapor containing hydrocarbons is extracted and treated in a Soil Vapor Extraction (SVE) unit
  located at 38 Varick Street
Product Recovery System
Groundwater Treatment Systems

• Two existing groundwater treatment systems, one at 400 Kingsland Avenue and the other located
  at 5 Bridgewater Street, extract groundwater with dissolved hydrocarbons and treat the water to
  NYSDEC standards

• The treated groundwater is then discharged into Newtown Creek at two permitted outfalls
  • Outfall 001 at 400 Kingsland Avenue
  • Outfall 002 at the foot of Meeker Avenue

• The groundwater systems treat and discharge approximately 1,000,000 gallons of groundwater per
  day, with treatment consisting of:
  • Metals removal (aeration, sand filters, filter press)
  • Air stripping
  • Process air treatment
 Groundwater
 Treatment
 Systems


• 400 Kingsland
  Avenue



• 5 Bridgewater Street
Soil Vapor Extraction
SPDES Permit Modification – Proposed Scope of Work
• Modify the SPDES permit to account for
  changes to the treatment and discharge
  process for treated water from the product
  recovery system

• Relocate and consolidate the two existing
  groundwater treatment systems into a new
  system at 38 Varick Street

• This single treatment facility will be designed to
  handle the combined flow from all existing
  recovery wells and maintain compliance with          Draft Rendering
  the SPDES discharge limits.

• Discharge of the treated water will
  occur through the existing Outfall 002 at the
  northern end of Meeker Avenue
    Groundwater
       Treatment
Facility Consolidation
       Objectives
• Optimization of the long-term
  operational efficiency of the
  groundwater treatment
  system

• Reducing operational
  footprint of the ExxonMobil
  remedial systems
Groundwater from                SPDES Permit Modification – Treatment Technologies
 Recovery Wells


   Oil / Water              Recycle to Head of System
   Separation



     Metals          Aeration/EQ                                                • Preliminary Design Basis and Objectives
    Removal                                       Backwash Water
                   Sand Filtration                                                • Maintain treatment train similar to existing
                                                                                    GW treatment systems



                                        Aeration Off-Gas
    Scale                                                  Settling & WTCs        • Provide redundancy and additional capacity
   Control w/
     WTC
                                                                                    for all key system components to maximize
                                                             Filter Press           system runtime and operational flexibility
                                                                                  • Reuse existing force main piping to handle
       Air                                                  Offsite Solids
                 Air Stripper Off-Gas                                               groundwater feed and discharge operations
    Stripping                                                 Disposal
                                                                                  • Incorporate lessons learned from existing
                                                                                    systems to optimize future operations and
   Discharge                       Process Air                      SVE / VER       maintenance
   to Outfall                       Treatment


                                                  Atmosphere
SPDES Permit Modification – Potential Impacts, Mitigation and
Project Schedule
During construction: impacts are expected to be         Long-term:
typical of new building construction                    •   Operations and Maintenance activities will
• Intermittent periods of increased traffic                 produce background mechanical noise. However,
  • Traffic management plan to be utilized                  as all equipment will be installed within the walls
                                                            of the new facility, the potential for nuisance
• Potential nuisance, dust, odors and noise produced        noise to exist outside of the facility is minimal.
  by intermittent heavy construction equipment
                                                        •   Periodic material deliveries and operational waste
  • Community Air Monitoring Program (CAMP) to              removal will result in an intermittent increase in
    be utilized                                             activity at the 38 Varick Street property.



                    New Facility Construction
                    November 2024 – April 2026         Long-term Operations & Maintenance
                     (approximately 1.5 years)
 SPDES Permit Modification – Application Status/Timeline

                                                                                              Additional
                                                                                              application
December 11, 2023                                                                          documentation to
                                                 April 9, 2024                            be uploaded to the
   SPDES Permit
Application Submitted                          Public Participation                        repository on an
     to NYSDEC                                   Plan Approved                              ongoing basis 2




                        February 16, 2024                               May 9, 2024                                NYSDEC Final
                           Response to                                  Virtual Public                           Decision on SPDES
                         Comments Letter                                  Meeting1                                      Permit
                           Submitted to
                            NYSDEC




  Notes:
  1. ExxonMobil to receive public comments during the meeting and on an ongoing basis thereafter. Comments received prior to the F inal Summary
      Report will be captured within the report.
  2. Example documentation includes, but is not limited to, Long Island Well Permit Application, NYSDEC Notice of Complete Application and Draft
      SPDES Permit (30-day NYSDEC public comment period), and the Final Summary Report and Written Certification.
    For More Information
Online document repository:   Notice of Complete Application (pending):

  https://bit.ly/3vIqIWW      •   To be published in local newspaper
                              •   To be provided in online document repository
                              •   Contact Project Liaison to receive a copy by
                                  email, mail, or telephone


                              Project Liaison - Kevin M. Thompson
                              Public & Government Affairs Advisor
                              (718) 404-0675
                              kevin.m.thompson@exxonmobil.com
                              38 Varick Street, Brooklyn, New York 11222
Questions?
To submit questions, comments, and concerns after the meeting:

Project Liaison - Kevin M. Thompson
Public & Government Affairs Advisor
(718) 404-0675
kevin.m.thompson@exxonmobil.com
38 Varick Street, Brooklyn, New York 11222
    For More Information
Online document repository:   Notice of Complete Application (pending):

  https://bit.ly/3vIqIWW      •   To be published in local newspaper
                              •   To be provided in online document repository
                              •   Contact Project Liaison to receive a copy by
                                  email or mail


                              Project Liaison - Kevin M. Thompson
                              Public & Government Affairs Advisor
                              (718) 404-0675
                              kevin.m.thompson@exxonmobil.com
                              38 Varick Street, Brooklyn, New York 11222
                   National Grid Newtown Creek
              Purification System Operations Update

The system performed in line with expectations for a facility of this complexity during the first
year of operation. We addressed issues that arose. This is a demonstration project, and we
learn from it every day.
The Newtown Creek Renewable Energy Project helps address climate change and creates a
model for sustainability – it reduces GHG emissions today – by utilizing an existing waste
stream to produce a reliable source of renewable energy while diverting food waste from
landfills.




Adjustments made in the first year:
   •   Vibration at the feed gas compressor that required repairs -- accounting for 67% of total
       outage time in year one.
   •   Re-evaluated spare parts on hand for quicker response rates.
   •   System tuning, adjustment, and calibration – which is common during the first year of
       operation.

Increased transparency:
   •   Closer coordination/collaboration with DEP.
   •   Implemented real-time system status monitoring.
   •   Worked with DEP to create a public website showing system status.

Equivalent emission avoidance:
   •   116,717 MMBtu of RNG was injected into the distribution system in year one, which has
       reduced emissions by more than 30,400 MT of CO2e. That is equivalent to removing
       7,235 vehicles from the road for a year (Source EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies
       Calculator)




Rev: June 6, 2024
Rev: June 6, 2024
From:          Lael Goodman
To:            Ketu, Rupika
Subject:       Meeker Avenue Plume Proposed Plan
Date:          Wednesday, June 26, 2024 9:13:07 PM
Attachments:   Meeker CAG Proposed Plan Comments.pdf



   Caution: This email originated from outside EPA, please exercise additional caution when
   deciding whether to open attachments or click on provided links.
Hi Rupika,

As a contributor to the CAG comments, North Brooklyn Neighbors would like to express our
support and reiterate the concerns put forward by the Meeker Avenue Plume CAG, attached
here.

Thanks,
Lael
--
Lael K. Goodman (she/her)
Director of Environmental Programs
North Brooklyn Neighbors
240 Kent Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11249

Currently working Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays. Thanks for your patience.
718.384.2248 ext. 111
Meeker Avenue Plume CAG
Vapor Intrusion Proposed Plan Public Comments

OU2 Standards
   1. The CAG requests that the EPA provide a proposal for how the agency plans to test buildings at
       risk of vapor intrusion within the Investigation Area. The CAG is also concerned about the vast
       number of properties where owners have not yet granted access and the lack of clarity from the
       EPA in how realistic it would be for them to not only compel testing but address the issue in a
       systematic way. Thus far, during the two heating seasons, the EPA has managed to test around
       50 properties, far short of what should be done to provide adequate information and public
       health protection in our community. While the CAG is and will continue to aid the EPA in
       directing community members to get testing, the onus is on the EPA to protect our community
       and thus far, the number of properties tested is not fulﬁlling that mission. We request
       information to be made public about how many properties exist where the property owner has
       refused testing.
            a. This plan should be a proposal that has new strategies for outreach, including outreach
                to non-residential properties, that has not yet been implemented by the EPA, as it has
                become obvious that the current strategies are not getting results quickly enough to
                protect community health.

   2. We believe the Remedial Action Levels should be more stringent.
         a. Residential RAL for TCE
                   • In particular, EPA Region 9 recommends that the TCE standard be 2 ug/m3 for
                       residential. The New York State Department of Health also recommends that
                       “TCE concentrations in the air not exceed 2 ug/m³.” Further, Section 121(d) of
                       the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
                       of 1980 (CERCLA) requires that on-site remedial actions attain or waive federal
                       environmental applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements (ARARs),
                       or more stringent state environmental ARARs, upon completion of the
                       remedial action. In this case, the state standard is more stringent, and we
                       would request that based on these two factors, the Remedial Action Level
                       should be 2 ug/m3 or below.
         b. Commercial/Industrial RAL for TCE
                   • Both the 8-hour and 10-hour workday RAL for TCE are also below what the
                       EPA Region 9 has recommended. Because of the number of people who both
                       live and work in our neighborhood, and because of frequency with which
                       people work greater than an 8-hour workday here, we would request that
                       instead of using an 8-hour workday for calculations, the EPA instead use a 10-
                       hour workday and match if not exceed the stringency of the standards set in
                       EPA region 9. This would set the Commercial/Industrial RAL for TCE to be 7
                       ug/m3 rather than the proposed indoor air standards of 8.8 ug/m3.
         c. Residential RAL for PCE


Meeker Ave Plume CAG Proposed Plan Public Comments 6/25/2024                                         1
                     •The RALs for PCE seem to correspond not to a one in a million cancer risk, but
                      instead are pegged to non-cancer risk. Our community deserves to be granted
                      the utmost protection and we are concerned that the EPA allows a cancer risk
                      range of 1x10-4 and 1x10-6, but the RALs do not correspond to the most
                      stringent standard. Given the New York State Department of Health has
                      guidelines of 30 ug/m3 for PCE, we would request that ARARs be taken into
                      consideration and set a guideline of 30 ug/m3 or less.
           d. Commercial/Industrial RAL for PCE
                  • We would again request that the RAL be calculated based on a 10-hour day
                      rather than an 8-hour workday for the same reasons as mentioned above.

   3. At the May 30, 2024, presentation by the EPA, results of some of the well sampling were
      presented. A select list of contaminants found in the groundwater was presented, many of which
      are known to be harmful to human health. While the CAG applauds the investigation of PCE and
      TCE in the area, given the profusion of other harmful contaminants, we are concerned that other
      contaminants that may negatively aﬀect our public health are not being properly considered.
      When the EPA does indoor air sampling, does it test for other contaminants? If so, which ones? If
      levels of these contaminants are found at harmful concentrations, what is done? We request that
      the EPA take full advantage any time they have access to a property and ensure the inhabitants
      are protected not just from PCE and TCE, but also from other potentially harmful compounds,
      especially those that have been found to be present in the groundwater sampling.

   4. While the proposed plan is an intermediate remedy and may not be subject to ARARs (according
      to TASC Technical Advisor Brian Younkin) and the CAG believes that it is vital that they apply in
      this case. The EPA has stated numerous times that the reason that it is addressing vapor
      intrusion now is because it is an immediate health risk. As of yet, we have no timeline or plan for
      an underlying cleanup or removal action. It is unknown for how long our community will exist
      with only this proposed plan to protect our health, and because of all these unknowns and the
      EPA’s own indications that the health risks are immediate, we believe that the standards of
      ARARs should apply. Additionally, the community has been very supportive of and even pushed
      for the site to move from a state-level site to the National Priorities List. If this move means less
      protective health standards than we had under our state cleanup, this goes against all the
      reasons that the site was elevated to a national status.

   5. The CAG believes that soil gas vapor testing should be implemented in addition to soil vapor
      intrusion, since it can be done in the public right of way and would provide some data on how
      likely a vapor intrusion risk is at a particular property, even if access to that property is denied.
      This would provide additional information to help the EPA determine whether it is vital to
      consider using additional measures to gain access to the property for testing. Depending on the
      underlying properties of soil in diﬀerent parts of the neighborhood, the well sampling might not
      be a good proxy for soil gas vapor and potential vapor intrusion.
           a. Without a larger data set of results from indoor air testing, we can’t feel conﬁdent that a
                plan based on such a small sample of properties is the best for our community. For
                example, soil gas vapor testing could be used at residences where tenants have



Meeker Ave Plume CAG Proposed Plan Public Comments 6/25/2024                                              2
               requested testing, but the property owner has not granted access, should the EPA be
               unwilling to use its administrative authority to force access.

   6. The CAG also would ask that the EPA be willing to test apartments on upper ﬂoors in elevator
      buildings and buildings with other vertical conduits. It has been found that elevators can
      increase the movement of vapors throughout a building. The EPA has stated on numerous
      occasions that testing every building within the investigation area would be an aspirational goal.
      Since there is evidence that upper-level apartments in elevator buildings may have greater risk
      of indoor air issues due to vapor intrusion, we see no reason why the EPA should turn away
      willing participants of this type.

   7. The CAG believes the EPA should do vapor intrusion sampling outside of the winter heating
      season.
          a. The EPA should identify test sites where indoor air is sampled during the winter
              heating season and at other times as well, especially during times of heavy rainfall to
              assess whether winter heating season testing is indeed the best method for determining
              risk of vapor intrusion. Seasonal variability of factors such as weather and rainfall can
              aﬀect vapor intrusion. From a June 2015 document of the EPA’s Oﬃce of Solid Waste
              and Emergency Response, “Because ﬂuctuations in water table elevation can lead to
              elevated vapor concentrations in the vadose zone, EPA also recommends that “near
              source” soil gas sampling (and possibly a soil gas survey) be considered in diﬀerent
              seasons that coincide with groundwater ﬂuctuations.”
          b. The CAG also believes that given that TCE exposure during the ﬁrst few weeks of
              pregnancy increases the risk of heart damage to a developing fetus, testing should be
              done in homes at any season if there is a person of childbearing age living in the home.
              The risk is greatest between weeks 2 and 8 of pregnancy, which is often before a person
              may even know that they are pregnant. Thus, to reduce the risk of birth defects, it would
              make sense to ensure safe living and working conditions for any person who may
              become pregnant.

   8. The CAG has questions about how long the results of vapor intrusion testing are valid. Given that
      the condition of the foundation, for example, can change with construction projects,
      earthquakes, etc, we are concerned that while initial testing may deem a location “safe,” the
      status may change in the future. We would like to see a schedule under which properties can be
      retested or a list of changes that would make a property eligible to be retested. We have seen it
      suggested that if soil gas vapor tests above a certain threshold, perhaps mitigation should be
      suggested in locations even if the indoor air tests “safe” in the event of future changes to the
      building.

   9. The CAG is concerned that not all available information is being collected and analyzed. In
      particular, the EPA should use all data and wells from the National Grid site to determine the
      extent of the plume given that groundwater analysis presented at the May 30, 2024, CAG
      meeting showed that contamination exists right up against the current boundary of the plume
      and the National Grid property. We also believe that there should be better coordination with



Meeker Ave Plume CAG Proposed Plan Public Comments 6/25/2024                                           3
       the Newtown Creek site in order to gain further information about how the two sites aﬀect one
       another.




Meeker Ave Plume CAG Proposed Plan Public Comments 6/25/2024                                           4
From:           Maeve BT
To:             Ketu, Rupika
Cc:             Brennan, John F.; Vega, Carlos
Subject:        Re: Meeker Superfund Testing
Date:           Monday, April 29, 2024 10:40:49 AM



   Caution: This email originated from outside EPA, please exercise additional caution when deciding
   whether to open attachments or click on provided links.
Hi Rupika,

Hope you are well. I saw this article
recently: https://mail.google.com/mail/u/1/#search/rupika/KtbxLwgswrHnkxCxmBhCHGppFMvBJcqpLV
and in this Gothamist article: https://gothamist.com/news/poisonous-vapors-may-be-affecting-over-1k-
buildings-in-greenpoint-and-east-williamsburg

Am I able to submit a public comment here? If so here it is below:

As mentioned previously one year ago, the fact that we have to get landlord permission to get our
apartment tested basically makes this testing program useless. As someone with health problems living
on the Meeker Superfund site who wanted to get our building tested, I was unable to do so because I
couldn't get landlord permission. This is an old building with many visible cracks in the facade and
ground floor where vapors could easily get through, plus a basement unit. For this program to work a
court order needs to be put in place immediately requiring testing, because when left with a choice, the
overwhelming majority of landlords will not choose to get the space tested. It is completely unrealistic to
think that they will comply voluntarily. Delays continue to jeopardize the health of the community who
actually lives in the superfund site- the renters.


Thanks,
Maeve
        APPENDIX V

RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY
 Attachment B- Proposed Plan
                                           Superfund Proposed Plan

                                       Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund Site

                                              Brooklyn, Kings County, New York

Superfund Proposed Plan                                                                                  April 2024



EPA ANNOUNCES PROPOSED PLAN                                   This Proposed Plan was developed by EPA, the lead
                                                              agency, in consultation with the New York State
This Proposed Plan describes the remedial alternatives        Department of Environmental Conservation
that the United States Environmental Protection               (NYSDEC) and the New York State Department of
Agency (EPA) considered to address vapor intrusion            Health (NYSDOH), the support agencies. EPA is
impacts at residential and non-residential properties at      issuing this Proposed Plan as part of its public
the Meeker Avenue Plume Superfund site (Site) located         participation responsibilities under Section 117(a) of
in Brooklyn, New York. This Proposed Plan also
identifies EPAs preferred remedial alternative and             MARK YOUR CALENDARS
provides the rationale for this preference.
                                                                Public Comment Period:
The Site is being addressed under the Comprehensive             April 5, 2024 to May 10, 2024
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability             EPA will accept written comments on the Proposed
Act (CERCLA, also known as the Superfund Law), as               Plan during the public comment period. Written
amended. A broad, comprehensive remedial                        comments should be addressed to:
investigation and feasibility study (RI/FS) for the Site is                          Rupika Ketu
currently ongoing, which is referred to as Operable Unit                      Remedial Project Manager
1 (OU1) of the Site. The OU1 RI/FS includes sampling                    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
at properties potentially impacted by subsurface vapors                       290 Broadway, 18th Floor
caused by Site-related contamination that can migrate                           New York, NY 10007
under structures and up into an overlying structure                          Email: ketu.rupika@epa.gov
(called vapor intrusion). This Proposed Plan has a
                                                                Written comments must be postmarked no later than
narrower focus that is referred to as Operable Unit 2
                                                                May 10, 2024. To request an extension, send a request
(OU2) of the Site, which is to address mitigating the           in writing to Rupika Ketu by 5:00 pm on May 10,
effects of unacceptable levels of vapor intrusion at            2024.
residential and non-residential properties that are
identified at the Site.                                         Public Meeting
                                                                April 16, 2024
EPAs preferred alternative for OU2 calls for the               6:00 to 8:00 pm
installation of sub-slab depressurization systems at            St. Stanislaus Kost Church
residential and non-residential properties where                607 Humboldt Street
                                                                Brooklyn, New York 11222
multiple lines of evidence indicate that subsurface
vapor intrusion resulting from Site-related                     EPA will hold a public meeting to explain the Proposed
contamination is occurring at concentrations that               Plan. Oral and written comments will also be accepted
represent a threat or potential threat to human health, as      at the meeting.
well as additional preventative measures, where
necessary, such as the sealing of cracks and gaps in the        In addition, documents from the administrative record
lowest level of a structure. To use multiple lines of           are available online at:
evidence means that EPA will evaluate multiple pieces           https://www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-plume
of information and data to support a conclusion.


                                                                                                   *701407*
                                                                                                         701407
CERCLA, as amended, and Section 300.430(f)(2) of               A public meeting will be held during the public
the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution            comment period to present the conclusions of the FFS,
Contingency Plan (NCP).                                        to elaborate further on the reasons for proposing the
                                                               preferred alternative, and to receive public comments.
Release of this Proposed Plan initiates a 30-day public        The public meeting will include a presentation by EPA
comment period. EPA, in consultation with NYSDEC               of the preferred alternative and other cleanup options.
and NYSDOH, will select a final remedy for OU2 after
reviewing and considering all information submitted            Comments received at the public meeting, as well as
during the public comment period. EPA, in consultation         written comments received during the public comment
with NYSDEC, may modify the preferred alternative or           period, will be documented in a Responsiveness
select another alternative presented in this Proposed          Summary section of a Record of Decision (ROD),
Plan based on new information or public comments.              along with EPA’s responses. A ROD is a document that
Therefore, the public is encouraged to review and              memorializes the selection of a remedy and the basis
comment on all of the alternatives presented in this           for the selection.
Proposed Plan.
                                                               SCOPE AND ROLE OF THE ACTION
This Proposed Plan summarizes information that can be
found in greater detail in the focused feasibility study       As with many Superfund sites, the contamination at this
(FFS) report prepared for OU2, which can be found in           Site is complex, and the cleanup is being managed
the administrative record for this remedial decision.          through more than one operable unit.
The dates for the public comment period, the public
meeting described below, and the location of the               As described above, OU1 currently is broader and more
administrative record can be found in the “Mark Your           comprehensive than the more focused OU2. A
Calendars” text box on Page 1 and in the “For Further          comprehensive RI/FS for OU1 was initiated in 2023
Information” text box on Page 12. EPA and NYSDEC               and is ongoing. That RI/FS includes the investigation of
encourage the public to review these documents to gain         all media at the Site, including soil, soil gas,
a more comprehensive understanding of activities for           groundwater, surface water, sediment, and air.
the Site.
                                                               This Proposed Plan identifies an interim remedy for
COMMUNITY ROLE IN SELECTION PROCESS                            OU2, which is to address unacceptable risks in indoor
                                                               air resulting from Site-related contamination. The
This Proposed Plan is being issued to inform the public        RI/FS for OU1 is still in its early stages. As such, the
of EPA’s preferred alternative to address vapor                OU2 alternatives are being considered interim while
intrusion impacts at the Site and to solicit public            EPA’s overall conceptual site model of the Site is being
comments pertaining to all of the remedial alternatives        developed. Any selected remedy for OU2 will be
evaluated, including the preferred alternative. Changes        reviewed on an ongoing basis to determine if any
to the preferred alternative, or a change to another           changes to the selected alternative are needed.
alternative, may be made if public comments or
additional data indicate that such a change would result       The ongoing performance of vapor intrusion sampling
in a more appropriate remedial action. The final               to identify additional properties where the potential for
decision regarding a selected remedy will be made after        vapor intrusion of Site-related contamination poses
EPA has taken into consideration all public comments.          unacceptable risks will continue as part of OU1 of the
EPA is soliciting public comments on all of the                Site. EPA’s goal is to conduct vapor intrusion sampling
alternatives considered in the Proposed Plan because           at as many properties as possible at the Site.
EPA may select a remedy other than the preferred
alternative.                                                   SITE DESCRIPTION

This Proposed Plan has been made available to the              The Site is located in Brooklyn, Kings County, New
public for a public comment period that concludes on           York and spans approximately 191 acres across several
May 10, 2024.                                                  city blocks in the Greenpoint and East Williamsburg
                                                               area of Brooklyn. The Brooklyn-Queens Expressway
                                                               (BQE) roughly bisects the Site in a west-southwest to
                                                           2
east-northeast direction. The Site includes a mixture of       depressurization mitigation systems to address vapor
residential, commercial, and industrial uses. These land       intrusion throughout the course of their investigations.
use designations are not anticipated to change in the
future. The total population within the Greenpoint and         On March 17, 2022, the Site was added to EPA’s
Williamsburg neighborhoods of Brooklyn where the               National Priorities List pursuant to CERCLA and
Site is located is approximately 160,000 people.               officially became a Superfund site. As mentioned above,
                                                               EPA is currently conducting the OU1 RI/FS for the Site.
Figure 1 at the end of this document shows the Site and
the interim Study Area boundary, where Study Area is           Site Geology and Hydrogeology
defined as the area where the OU1 RI/FS activities are
currently focused. The interim Study Area boundary             Based on soil borings performed at and near the Site by
will be refined as the OU1 RI/FS continues and more            NYSDEC and other investigators, the Site is underlain
data are obtained.                                             from the ground surface down by the Upper Glacial
                                                               aquifer, the Raritan Formation, and crystalline bedrock.
SITE BACKGROUND                                                The primary hydrogeologic unit is the Upper Glacial
                                                               aquifer, which consists of a terminal moraine, a ground
The Site is located in a region of historic petroleum          moraine, and glacial outwash deposits, and it is
refining and storage operations that have occupied a           characterized by the United States Geological Survey
significant portion of the Greenpoint area since               (USGS) as an unsorted and unstratified mixture of clay,
approximately 1866. Currently, bulk oil storage                sand, gravel, and boulders. Textural units identified by
terminals exist north of the Site and include the former       NYSDEC in the Upper Glacial aquifer at the Site
British Petroleum Terminal (now Kinder Morgan) and             include fill material, silty sand, sandy silt, sand, and
the ExxonMobil Brooklyn Terminal. The former                   localized clayey silt / silt. Based on slug test results
Paragon Oil facility was located along the northeastern        from several Meeker Avenue Plume Site monitoring
portion of the Site along Newtown Creek, north of              wells, the hydraulic conductivity of the Upper Glacial
Bridgewater Street, between Meeker Avenue and                  aquifer ranges from 8.32 x 10-5 centimeters per second
Apollo Street. The contamination associated with the           (cm/s) to 2.91 x 10-2 cm/s.
Site was discovered by NYSDEC during investigation
and remediation of an adjacent and overlapping                 At and near the Site, the Upper Glacial aquifer is
petroleum groundwater contamination area, which had            underlain by the Raritan Formation unit at an
resulted from historical petroleum refining and storage        approximate depth of 100 to 140 feet below ground
operations along the banks of Newtown Creek. During            surface. The Raritan Formation, which consists of clay,
several rounds of investigation, chlorinated volatile          silty clay, and clayey to silty fine sand, exhibits
organic compounds (CVOCs), including but not limited           hydraulic conductivity less than 10-6 cm/s and is
to trichlorethylene (TCE) and tetrachlorethylene (PCE),        recognized as a confining unit. The water table surface
were found in subsurface soil and groundwater outside          occurs in the Upper Glacial aquifer from approximately
the petroleum spill area. Upon discovery of the CVOC           10 to 60 feet below ground surface.
contamination, NYSDEC initiated investigations in the
area to determine the extent and sources of CVOC               In general, natural groundwater flow in the aquifer is to
contamination, as well as the potential impacts of this        the east and northeast. However, the large, off-site
contamination on the community.                                groundwater pump and treat system that has been
                                                               operated since the mid-1990s as part of an effort to
Since 2007, NYSDEC in conjunction with NYSDOH,                 cleanup an overlapping petroleum groundwater
has conducted multiple investigations related to the           contamination area has produced localized cones of
Site. These investigations have consisted of soil,             depression.
groundwater, soil gas, and soil vapor intrusion
sampling. NYSDEC completed nine separate Site                  The overall Site hydrogeology is being further explored
characterization investigations between 2007 and 2016          through the OU1 RI/FS process.
and ten soil vapor intrusion investigations between
2007 and 2023. In total, NYSDEC sampled more than
166 properties and installed 29 sub-slab

                                                           3
SUMMARY OF ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS                                  WHAT IS NEEDED TO HAVE A COMPLETE
                                                                   VAPOR INTRUSION PATHWAY?
Vapor Intrusion Description
                                                                   In order for the vapor intrusion pathway to be
The soil, soil gas, and groundwater at the Site are                complete, there must be volatilization of Site-
contaminated with CVOCs. CVOCs are a subset of                     related contaminants from contaminated
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which are                       groundwater or other subsurface sources through
substances that typically evaporate at room                        the vadose (or unsaturated) zone to the soil vapor
temperature. They can affect the indoor air of properties          underneath a structure (i.e., sub-slab soil vapor).
located in close proximity to contaminated areas by                These contaminants can then migrate through the
entering the indoor air of structures through small                slab into indoor air. Contaminant vapors move from
                                                                   an area of higher concentration to an area of lower
cracks, pipes or other points of entry. Soil vapor
                                                                   concentration. The vapor intrusion pathway is
intrusion inside residential and commercial buildings is
                                                                   complete when Site-related contaminants migrate
a major concern at the Site. VOCs are also commonly                into indoor air where vapors may be inhaled.
found in household products such as cleaning supplies,
building products like paints and air fresheners.                       activities typically take EPA about 1 hour to
Therefore, sampling indoor air for the presence of Site-                complete.
related contamination is a complicated process that                    Day 3: EPA returns to collect the air samplers,
involves sampling both the indoor air and the air                       which typically takes less than 1 hour to
beneath the structure over time. Common household                       complete.
sources of VOCs also need to be removed during
testing so that the results can reliably reflect what may       Ideally, this sampling is conducted during the winter
                                                                heating season, which runs from mid-November
be entering the structure from the contaminated
                                                                through March in the New York City area, because this
material beneath it, as opposed to from materials in the
                                                                is when the greatest potential for subsurface vapor
building.                                                       intrusion is expected to occur.

The soil vapor intrusion sampling being conducted by            The results of the sampling are evaluated through
EPA as part of the OU1 RI/FS is typically a three-day           multiple lines of evidence to make recommendations on
process, which can generally be described as follows,           next steps. The potential recommendations may include
though slight modifications to this approach can be             (1) that the results clearly indicate that no action is
made on an as-needed basis:                                     required; (2) that the results are not clear and additional
                                                                sampling is required; or (3) the results indicate that
       Day 1: EPA inspects the property for any                contamination from the soil, groundwater, and/or soil
        potential sources of VOCs and temporarily               gas is entering or has the potential to enter the structure
        stores any that are found. EPA then installs a          above Remedial Action Levels (further defined below)
        sub-slab soil gas port, which involves drilling         and, therefore, soil vapor mitigation in the structure is
        an approximately quarter-sized hole through             required.
        the lowest level floor of a structure. Day 1
        activities typically takes EPA between 1 and            The purpose of OU2 is to evaluate alternatives for
        1.5 hours to complete.                                  addressing unacceptable risks associated with Site-
                                                                related soil vapor intrusion when mitigation is required.
       Day 2: EPA returns to make sure the port is
        functioning properly and, assuming it is, places        Current Status of Investigation
        sampling devices throughout the lowest one or
        two levels of the property (typically, basement         There are currently well over 1,000 properties within
        and first floor). These sampling devices need to        the preliminary Study Area for the Site that are at
        be left in place to collect air passively for 24        potentially impacted by vapor intrusion of Site-related
        hours for residential properties and at least 8         contamination; the potential for vapor intrusion
        hours for non-residential properties. Day 2             depends on multiple factors, including the condition of

                                                            4
the building itself and the level of contamination
beneath and near a structure. As such, EPA’s goal is to                   WHAT IS A “PRINCIPAL THREAT?”
conduct vapor intrusion sampling at as many properties             The NCP establishes an expectation that EPA will use
as possible within the Study Area. As part of this effort,         treatment to address the principal threats posed by a
EPA has been seeking consent for access to conduct the             site wherever practicable (NCP Section
sampling while working closely with the community on               300.430(a)(1)(iii)(A)). The "principal threat" concept
outreach efforts to help increase awareness about the              is applied to the characterization of "source materials"
Site and encourage the public’s overall willingness to             at a Superfund site. A source material is material that
provide access.                                                    includes or contains hazardous substances, pollutants,
                                                                   or contaminants that act as a reservoir for migration of
EPA began soil vapor intrusion sampling activities at the          contamination to groundwater, surface water, or air, or
Site as part of OU1 in November 2022. As of December               acts as a source for direct exposure. Contaminated
2023, EPA has conducted vapor intrusion sampling and               groundwater generally is not considered a source
fully evaluated the results at 18 residential structures,          material; however, non-aqueous phase liquids in
11 public housing buildings, and one public school. Out            groundwater may be viewed as source material.
of these, EPA has determined that vapor mitigation is              Principal threat wastes are those source materials
not needed at this time at any of the properties it has            considered to be highly toxic or highly mobile that
sampled, and that further monitoring should be                     generally cannot be reliably contained or would
conducted at three of the residential properties. In               present a significant risk to human health or the
addition, in February and March 2024, EPA sampled 18               environment should exposure occur. A decision
properties and will be evaluating the results, and will be         whether and how to treat these wastes is made on a
conducting additional sampling in the future. NYSDEC               site-specific basis through a detailed analysis of the
did, however, identify 26 properties that they                     alternatives using the nine remedy selection criteria.
determined required the installation of sub-slab                   This analysis provides a basis for making a statutory
depressurization systems to mitigate risks from vapor              finding that the remedy employs treatment as a
intrusion when they were conducting work prior to the              principal element.
Site being designated as a Superfund site, and two that
required the sealing of cracks/gaps. As such, EPA fully
                                                                 generally cannot be reliably contained or would present
anticipates identifying additional properties that would
                                                                 a significant risk to human health or the environment
require vapor intrusion mitigation during the ongoing
                                                                 should exposure occur. They include liquids and other
OU1 RI/FS process.
                                                                 highly mobile materials (e.g., solvents) or materials
                                                                 having high concentrations of toxic compounds. A
EPA has recently completed an initial round of
                                                                 detailed explanation of principle threat wastes can be
groundwater sampling at the Site. This sampling effort
                                                                 found in the information box, “What is a Principal
included surveying more than 370 existing groundwater
                                                                 Threat?” on this page.
monitoring wells and sampling 344 of these for
CERCLA-related hazardous substances including
                                                                 This response action does not address source materials
VOCs, semi-volatile organic compounds, 1,4-dioxane,
                                                                 constituting principal threat wastes because no such
pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls, metals, and per-
                                                                 materials are part of this operable unit. The interim
and polyfluoroalkyl substances. Once the analytical
                                                                 action that is being evaluated in this Proposed Plan
results from the groundwater sampling are fully
                                                                 solely addresses vapor intrusion of contaminants into
available, the data will be used to refine the extent of
                                                                 structures from subsurface sources of contamination.
the preliminary Study Area, to determine the location of
                                                                 Soil vapor is neither a source material nor a principal
additional wells that need to be installed to fill in data
                                                                 threat waste.
gaps, and to help better determine areas where future
vapor intrusion sampling should be conducted.
                                                                 SUMMARY OF SITE RISKS

PRINCIPAL THREATS                                                Human Health Risk Assessment

Principal threat wastes are those source materials               EPA conducted an expedited human health risk
considered to be highly toxic or highly mobile that              evaluation of the soil vapor intrusion exposure pathway

                                                             5
                                                               WHAT IS RISK AND HOW IS IT CALCULATED?
as part of the FFS for OU2 to estimate the risks
associated with exposure to Site-related contaminants          A Superfund baseline human health risk assessment is an
of potential concern (COPCs) in indoor air. The                analysis of the potential adverse health effects caused by
                                                               hazardous substance releases from a site in the absence of any
evaluation utilized data obtained by both NYSDEC and           actions to control or mitigate these releases under current- and
EPA.                                                           anticipated future-land uses. A four-step process is utilized for
                                                               assessing site-related human health risks for reasonable
The approach for the expedited risk evaluation                 maximum exposure scenarios.
consisted of comparing sub-slab soil vapor and indoor          Hazard Identification: In this step, the chemicals of potential
air concentrations against current, risk-based vapor           concern (COPCs) at the site in various media (i.e., soil,
intrusion screening levels (VISLs). Two residential            groundwater, surface water, and air) are identified based on
properties previously assessed by NYSDEC, as well as           such factors as toxicity, frequency of occurrence, and fate and
one residential property assessed by EPA, were chosen          transport of the contaminants in the environment,
                                                               concentrations of the contaminants in specific media,
for this evaluation. These properties were chosen              mobility, persistence, and bioaccumulation.
because, based on a review of the data, they are
representative of high-end exposure conditions.                Exposure Assessment: In this step, the different exposure
                                                               pathways through which people might be exposed to the
                                                               contaminants identified in the previous step are evaluated.
Based on the results of the soil vapor intrusion               Examples of exposure pathways include incidental ingestion
sampling thus far, the primary Site-related COPCs              of and dermal contact with contaminated soil and ingestion of
associated with OU2 are currently PCE and TCE. As              and dermal contact with contaminated groundwater. Factors
the OU1 RI/FS is still ongoing, it is possible that            relating to the exposure assessment include, but are not
additional Site-related COPCs may be identified in the         limited to, the concentrations in specific media that people
                                                               might be exposed to and the frequency and duration of that
future, but the expedited risk evaluation focused on           exposure. Using these factors, a “reasonable maximum
these two COPCs.                                               exposure” scenario that portrays the highest level of human
                                                               exposure that could reasonably be expected to occur is
EPA recommends comparing the maximum detected                  calculated.
sub-slab and indoor air results to the appropriate EPA         Toxicity Assessment: In this step, the types of adverse health
VISLs for residential use based on a cancer risk of            effects associated with chemical exposures and the
1x10-6 or hazard quotient (HQ) of 1 when evaluating            relationship between magnitude of exposure and severity of
the VI pathway and determining potential risks. The            adverse effects are determined. Potential health effects are
results of these comparisons are provided below.               chemical-specific and may include the risk of developing
                                                               cancer over a lifetime or other non-cancer health hazards, such
                                                               as changes in the normal functions of organs within the body
TCE: The concentration of TCE in the sub-slab at the           (e.g., changes in the effectiveness of the immune system).
residential properties that were evaluated ranged from         Some chemicals are capable of causing both cancer and non-
18 micrograms per meter cubed (µg/m3) to 300 ug/m3,            cancer health hazards.
and the concentration of TCE in the basement and/or            Risk Characterization: This step summarizes and combines
first floor indoor air ranged from 0.549 µg/m3 to 12           outputs of the exposure and toxicity assessments to provide a
µg/m3. The noncancer hazards associated with these             quantitative assessment of site risks for all COPCs. Exposures
concentrations ranged from an HQ <1 up to an HQ = 6,           are evaluated based on the potential risk of developing cancer
which exceeds the goal of protection of an HQ = 1.             and the potential for non-cancer health hazards. The likelihood
                                                               of an individual developing cancer is expressed as a
Cancer risks associated with exposure to TCE at the            probability. For example, a 10-4 cancer risk means a
residential properties evaluated were all below 1x10-4.        “one-in-ten-thousand excess cancer risk”; or one additional
The HQ value and the significance of 1x10-4 are                cancer may be seen in a population of 10,000 people as a
described in the information box on the next page              result of exposure to site contaminants under the conditions
                                                               identified in the Exposure Assessment. Current Superfund
entitled, “What is Human Health Risk and How is it             regulations for exposures identify the range for determining
Calculated?”                                                   whether remedial action is necessary as an individual excess
                                                               lifetime cancer risk of 10-4 to 10-6, corresponding to a
PCE: The concentration of PCE in the sub-slab at the           one-in-ten-thousand to a one-in-a-million excess cancer risk.
residential properties that were evaluated ranged from         For non-cancer health effects, a “hazard index” (HI) is
                                                               calculated. The key concept for a non-cancer HI is that a
1,400 µg/m3 to 4,200 µg/m3, and the concentration of           “threshold” (measured as an HI of less than or equal to 1)
PCE in the basement and/or first floor indoor air ranged       exists below which non-cancer health hazards are not
from 37 µg/m3 to 170 µg/m3. The noncancer hazards              expected to occur. The goal of protection is 10-6 for cancer
associated with these concentrations ranged from an            risk and an HI of 1 for a noncancer health hazard. Chemicals
                                                               that exceed a 10-4 cancer risk or an HI of 1 are typically those
                                                           6   that will require remedial action at a site and are referred to as
                                                               chemicals of concern, or COCs, in the final remedial decision
                                                               document or Record of Decision.
HQ <1 up to an HQ = 4, which exceeds the goal of                          Prevent exposure by current and future
protection of an HQ = 1. Cancer risks associated with                      occupants to Site-related PCE and TCE-
exposure to PCE at the residential properties evaluated                    contaminated vapors within structures that
were all below 1x10-4.                                                     would result in a noncancer hazard index
                                                                           greater than 1.
TCE and PCE are considered the contaminants of                            Prevent the migration of contaminated
concern (COCs) for OU2.                                                    subsurface vapors into the indoor air of
                                                                           structures from Site-related PCE and TCE in
Ecological Risk Assessment                                                 soil and/or groundwater above remedial
                                                                           action levels based on current and reasonably
The first step in an ecological risk assessment is to                      anticipated future land use.
evaluate completed exposure pathways for ecological
receptors. For OU2, there are no completed ecological            REMEDIAL ACTION LEVELS
exposure pathways, as the focus of this operable unit is
centered on vapor intrusion into buildings. As such, an          To achieve the RAOs, EPA has identified the following
ecological risk assessment was not performed as part of          Remedial Action Levels (RALs)1 for TCE and PCE:
the OU2 evaluation process.
                                                                                Residential             Commercial /
Conclusion                                                                      Remedial                Industrial Remedial
                                                                     COC        Action Levels           Action Levels2
Based on the results of the expedited human health risk
                                                                                (µg/m3)                 (µg/m3)
evaluation, a remedial action is necessary to protect
public health, welfare, and the environment from actual                        Indoor      Sub- slab     Indoor      Sub-
                                                                                 Air                     Air          slab
or threatened releases of hazardous substances.
                                                                     TCE         2.1        70           8.8          290
It is EPA’s judgment that the preferred alternative                  PCE         42         1,400        180          5,800
summarized in this Proposed Plan is necessary to
protect public health or welfare or the environment              The RALs represent current EPA VISLs set at a target
from actual or threatened releases of hazardous                  HQ = 1, which falls midway between EPA’s cancer
substances into the environment.                                 risk range of 1x10-6 to 1x10-4.

                                                                 These RALs will be considered with other Site-specific
REMEDIAL ACTION OBJECTIVES                                       lines of evidence such as subsurface geology and
                                                                 hydrogeology, the structural characteristics of each
Remedial Action Objectives (RAOs) are specific goals             building, and proximity to other impacted structures in
to protect human health and the environment. These               determining whether there is a need for remedial
objectives are based on available information and                action. The need for remedial action will also be
standards such as Applicable or Relevant and                     determined in consultation with NYSDEC and the New
Appropriate Requirements (ARARs), to-be-considered               York State Department of Health (NYSDOH),
(TBC) advisories, criteria, and guidance, and site-              including consideration of NYSDOH’s Guidance for
specific risk-based levels, if applicable. The primary           Evaluating Soil Vapor Intrusion in New York State.
objective of any remedial strategy is overall
protectiveness.                                                  SUMMARY OF REMEDIAL ALTERNATIVES

The following RAOs have been established for OU2 to              Section 121(b)(1) of CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. § 9621(b)(1),
address soil vapor intrusion risks at the Site:                  mandates that remedial actions must be protective of
                                                                 human health and the environment, be cost-effective,


1                                                                2
  Consistent with EPA’s Technical Guide for Assessing and         The commercial/industrial RALs assume an eight-hour
Mitigating the Vapor Intrusion Pathway (OSWER 9200.2-            workday, which is protective of most non-residential settings
154, 2015), the RALs are developed assuming an attenuation       and can be adjusted as needed to account for property-specific
factor from sub-slab to indoor air of 33.                        conditions.
                                                             7
comply with ARARs, and utilize permanent solutions,             upon several factors, including subsurface geology and
alternative treatment technologies, and resource                hydrogeology, the structural characteristics of the
recovery alternatives to the maximum extent                     building, and proximity to other impacted structures or
practicable. Section 121(b)(1) of CERCLA also                   sources. Different impacted structures may therefore
establishes a preference for remedial actions that              require different vapor mitigation strategies based on
employ, as a principal element, treatment to reduce             factors such as age of the building and construction
permanently and significantly the volume, toxicity, or          type, the depth to groundwater beneath a structure, etc.
mobility of the hazardous substances, pollutants, and           For the purposes of the cost estimate, the mitigation
contaminants at a site. Section 121(d) of CERCLA, 42            actions include sealing cracks and gaps in the slab,
U.S.C. § 9621(d), further specifies that a remedial             installing a concrete slab or comparable membrane
action must attain a level or standard of control of the        system in instances where only a dirt floor is present,
hazardous substances, pollutants, and contaminants that         and installing active sub-slab depressurization
at least attains ARARs under federal and state laws,            mitigation systems for a projected number of 100
unless a waiver can be justified pursuant to Section            properties, which is approximately 10 percent of the
121(d)(4) of CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. § 9621(d)(4).                    properties within the interim Study Area.

Descriptions of the remedial alternatives considered to         The cost estimate reflects the estimated costs for
address vapor intrusion impacts resulting from Site-            mitigation in the event that an estimated 100 structures
related contamination are provided below. More detail           within the Study Area are found to require vapor
can be found in the FFS report prepared for OU2.                mitigation as a result of sampling and the other lines of
                                                                evidence described above. The cost estimate also takes
The construction time for each alternative does not             into consideration other factors including costs for
include the time required to design the remedy,                 addressing basements and crawl spaces without any
negotiate the performance of the remedy with any                existing concrete floor, as well as larger multi-unit
potentially responsible parties, or procure necessary           structures that would require more depressurization
contracts.                                                      points than smaller structures. The cost estimate also
                                                                reflects one year of estimated costs for operation and
Alternative 1 - No Action                                       maintenance (O&M) of sub-slab depressurization
                                                                mitigation systems to ensure the systems are operating
The NCP requires that a “No Action” alternative be              properly for the estimated 100 properties. The sampling
evaluated to establish a baseline for comparison with           and mitigation is expected to occur on a rolling basis
other remedial alternatives. Under this alternative, no         over a period of five years. If it is determined that a
action would be taken with regard to addressing vapor           property requires a sub-slab depressurization system,
intrusion at the Site.                                          EPA will work with the owner to arrange for the
                                                                installation of the system. Construction can be
Total Capital Cost:      $0                                     completed in as little as one day, and it can take up to
Total O&M:               $0                                     one week or longer for the installation of larger
Total Cost:              $0                                     commercial systems. The time required for the
Construction Time:       0 years                                construction is dependent on property owners providing
                                                                access.
Alternative 2 - Vapor Intrusion Mitigation
                                                                The specific details and cost of the mitigation system
Under this alternative, vapor intrusion mitigation would        for any particular building would be determined during
be implemented at structures where EPA determines               remedial design.
that, based on multiple lines of evidence, vapor
intrusion of the COCs is occurring at concentrations            Total Capital Cost:     $1,124,000
that exceed the RALs. The goal of vapor intrusion               Total O&M:              $21,200
mitigation would be to prevent contaminated soil                Total Cost:             $1,145,200
vapors from entering and/or accumulating in structures          Construction Time:      5 years
at concentrations that represent a threat, or a potential
threat, to human health. The potential for vapor
intrusion to occur at a particular structure is dependent
                                                            8
EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVES                                       EVALUATION CRITERIA FOR SUPERFUND REMEDIAL
                                                                 ALTERNATIVES
In evaluating the remedial alternatives, EPA considers
                                                                 Overall Protectiveness of Human Health and the Environment
the following nine evaluation criteria set forth in the          evaluates whether and how an alternative eliminates, reduces, or
NCP: overall protection of human health and the                  controls threats to public health and the environment through
environment; compliance with ARARs; long-term                    institutional controls, engineering controls, or treatment.
effectiveness and permanence; reduction of toxicity,
                                                                 Compliance with Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate
mobility, or volume through treatment; short-term                Requirements (ARARs) evaluates whether the alternative meets
effectiveness; implementability; cost; and state and             federal and state environmental statutes, regulations, and other
community acceptance. Refer to the table below for a             requirements that pertain to the site, or whether a waiver is justified.
more detailed description of the evaluation criteria.
                                                                 Long-term Effectiveness and Permanence considers the ability of an
                                                                 alternative to maintain protection of human health and the environment
This section of the Proposed Plan summarizes the                 over time.
evaluation of the relative performance of each
alternative against the nine criteria, noting how each           Reduction of Toxicity, Mobility, or Volume of Contaminants
compare to the others under consideration. A detailed            through Treatment evaluates an alternative's use of treatment to
                                                                 reduce the harmful effects of principal contaminants, their ability to
analysis of alternatives can be found in the FFS.                move in the environment, and the amount of contamination present.

Overall Protection of Human Health and the                       Short-term Effectiveness considers the length of time needed to
Environment                                                      implement an alternative and the risks the alternative poses to workers,
                                                                 the community, and the environment during implementation.
A threshold requirement of CERCLA is that the                    Implementability considers the technical and administrative
selected remedial action be protective of human health           feasibility of implementing the alternative, including factors such as
and the environment. An alternative is protective if it          the relative availability of goods and services.
reduces current and potential future risk associated with
                                                                 Cost includes estimated capital and annual operations and maintenance
each exposure pathway at a site to acceptable levels.            costs, as well as present worth cost. Present worth cost is the total cost
                                                                 of an alternative over time in terms of today's dollar value. Cost
Alternative 1 (No Action) would not meet the RAOs                estimates are expected to be accurate within a range of +50 to -30
and would not be protective of human health and the              percent.
environment since no action would be taken.
                                                                 State/Support Agency Acceptance considers whether the State agrees
                                                                 with the EPA's analyses and recommendations, as described in the
Alternative 2 (Vapor Intrusion Mitigation) would                 RI/FS and Proposed Plan.
control exposure to Site-related contaminants from
vapor intrusion into residential and non-residential             Community Acceptance considers whether the local community
                                                                 agrees with EPA's analyses and preferred alternative. Comments
structures. Contaminated sub-slab vapor would be                 received on the Proposed Plan are an important indicator of community
prevented from entering and/or accumulating in                   acceptance.
buildings at concentrations that represent a potential
threat to human health. Therefore, when implemented
at impacted buildings, Alternative 2 would be                    Long-Term Effectiveness and Permanence
protective of human health and the environment.
                                                                 Alternative 1 would involve no active remedial
Compliance with Applicable or Relevant and                       measures and, therefore, would not be effective in
Appropriate Requirements                                         eliminating the potential exposure to contaminants.
                                                                 Alternative 2 would be effective in the long term.
In accordance with the NCP (40 CFR §                             Previously installed vapor mitigation systems at other
300.430(f)(l)(ii)(c)(l)), interim actions such as this are       structures in the area have demonstrated effectiveness
not required to comply with ARARs as long as the final           in addressing vapor intrusion concerns. Long-term
remedial action at the Site will attain them.                    effectiveness of the vapor intrusion mitigation systems
Consequently, no ARARs have been identified for this             would be provided by establishing and implementing
interim action.                                                  O&M procedures to ensure that the systems continue to



                                                             9
mitigate the potential threat to human health posed by           reliable and effective in addressing vapor intrusion and
vapor intrusion at impacted structures at the Site.              mitigating exposures.

Reduction of Toxicity, Mobility, Volume of                       Cost
Contamination through Treatment
                                                                 There is no cost associated with Alternative 1 because
Alternatives 1 and 2 would provide no reduction in               no activities are implemented.
toxicity, mobility, or volume. However, under
Alternative 2, Site-related contaminants in vapor form           The estimated cost of Alternative 2 was developed as a
would be prevented from entering into buildings at               range of costs because the total number of residential
concentrations that represent a potential threat to human        versus non-residential buildings that require vapor
health.                                                          mitigation is not currently known. In addition, the
                                                                 actual costs could vary depending on the particular
Short-Term Effectiveness                                         building and would be determined during design. The
                                                                 estimated total cost includes capital costs and O&M
Alternative 1 does not involve any active construction           costs for one year to ensure the system is operating
activities that could present a risk to workers or the           properly. After one year, O&M of the vapor mitigation
public.                                                          system is turned over to the State.

Implementation of Alternative 2 would not be expected            Note that Alternative 2 provides for the potentiality of
to result in short-term risks to the community, the              designing, installing, and maintaining vapor mitigation
workers installing the vapor intrusion mitigation                systems, but it does not address the electricity costs to
systems, or the environment in general. Any potential            operate the vapor mitigation system. The operating
threats to the workers from inhaling hazardous                   costs for these systems are minimal, similar to costs to
substances in vapor form during system installation              operate radon mitigation systems, and they would be
would be minimized with the implementation of                    the responsibility of the property owner.
appropriate health and safety measures.
                                                                 The estimated total cost for Alternative 2 is $1,145,200.
As for short term impacts, no time is required for
construction of Alternative 1. Under Alternative 2, the          State Acceptance
installation of sub-slab depressurization systems can be
completed in as little as one day and it can take up to          NYSDEC concurs with EPA’s preferred alternative.
one week for the installation of larger commercial
systems. While, for planning purposes, it is estimated           Community Acceptance
that Alternative 2 may take up to five years to install
the estimated 100 systems to address vapor intrusion             Community acceptance of the preferred alternative will
concerns within the Study Area, this would not,                  be evaluated after the public comment period ends and
however, be a continuous five years of effort. Rather,           will be described in the Responsiveness Summary
the installations would happen as the need is                    section of the ROD. Based on public comment, the
determined through the ongoing OU1 RI/FS process.                preferred alternative could be modified from the
                                                                 version presented in this Proposed Plan.
Implementability
                                                                 PREFERRED REMEDY AND BASIS FOR
Alternative 1 does not involve the application of any            PREFERENCE
technology, therefore, there are no issues relating to
feasibility of implementation.                                   Based upon an evaluation of the remedial alternatives,
                                                                 EPA, with the concurrence of NYSDEC, proposes
Alternative 2 is considered to be readily implementable.         Alternative 2, Vapor Intrusion Mitigation. Vapor
The installation of vapor mitigation systems under               intrusion mitigation would be implemented at
Alternative 2 would use readily available services and           residential and non-residential structures at the Site
equipment. Such systems have already been installed at           where multiple lines of evidence indicate that vapor
other buildings in the area and have shown to be
                                                            10
intrusion is occurring at concentrations that represent a          well as similar sites. The short-term effects of the
threat or a potential threat to human health.                      preferred alternative include potential impacts to
                                                                   workers, but these could be mitigated using appropriate
The potential for vapor intrusion to occur at a particular         health and safety measures.
structure is dependent upon several factors, including
subsurface geology and hydrogeology, the structural                The preferred alternative does not satisfy the preference
characteristics of each building, and proximity to other           for treatment because vapor intrusion mitigation
impacted structures or sources. Different impacted                 systems do not treat the subsurface vapor source, and
structures may therefore require different vapor                   treatment of groundwater and/or soil gas is outside the
mitigation strategies based on factors such as the age of          scope of this interim action. The environmental benefits
the building and construction type, the depth to                   of the preferred alternative may be enhanced by
groundwater beneath a structure, etc. As such, the                 consideration, during the design, of technologies and
preferred alternative has the following key components,            practices that are sustainable in accordance with both
some or all of which may be used at any particular                 the EPA Region 2’s Clean and Green Energy Policy
property: the installation of sub-slab mitigation                  and NYSDEC’s Green Remediation Policy3. This
systems; engineering measures such as the sealing of               would include consideration of green remediation
cracks and gaps in the lowest level slab of a structure;           technologies and practices.
the installation of a concrete slab or comparable
membrane system in instances where only a dirt floor is            With respect to the two modifying criteria of the
present; and one year of O&M. This alternative has the             comparative analysis, which are state acceptance and
estimated total cost of $1,145,200.                                community acceptance, NYSDEC concurs with the
                                                                   preferred alternative and community acceptance will be
Basis for the Remedy Preference                                    evaluated upon the close of the public comment period.

Alternative 2 (Vapor Intrusion Mitigation) is the                  COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
preferred alternative because it meets the threshold
criteria to protect human health and the environment by            EPA provides information regarding the cleanup of the
preventing contaminants of concern from entering                   Site to the public through meetings and announcements
indoor air at levels that pose an unacceptable risk. The           published in the local newspaper. EPA and NYSDEC
exact number of residential properties to be remediated            encourage the public to gain a more comprehensive
will be determined upon completion of additional vapor             understanding of the Site and the Superfund activities
intrusion sampling during the ongoing OU1 RI/FS.                   that are being conducted there. The interim remedy for
Based upon the information currently available, EPA                the Site will be selected after reviewing and considering
believes the preferred alternative meets the threshold             all information submitted during a 30-day public
criteria and provides the best balance of tradeoffs                comment period.
compared to the other alternative with respect to the
balancing and modifying criteria set forth in the NCP.             The dates for the public comment period, the date,
The preferred alternative is considered protective of              location, and time of the public meeting, and the
human health and the environment in the short-term                 locations of the Administrative Record files are
until a final remedy is implemented for the Site.                  provided on the front page of this Proposed Plan.
Although this interim action is not intended to address
fully the statutory mandates, the preferred alternative, if
implemented, would satisfy the statutory requirements
of Section 121(b) of CERCLA, namely being (1)
protective of human health and the environment and (2)
cost effective. EPA expects the final remedy for the site
will fully satisfy the statutory requirements. The
preferred alternative would be readily implementable
using technologies proven to be effective at this Site, as

3
 See http://www.epa.gov/greenercleanups/epa-region-2-              http://www.dec.ny.gov/docs/remediation_hudson_pdf/der31.
cleanand-green-policy and                                          pdf
                                                              11
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
The administrative record file, which contains copies
of the Proposed Plan and supporting documentation, is
available at the following locations:

EPA Region 2 Superfund Records Center
290 Broadway, 18th Floor
New York, New York 10007-1866
(212) 637-4308
Hours: Monday-Friday – 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.

Brooklyn
Greenpoint Public Library
107 Norman Avenue
Brooklyn, New York 11222
Hours:
Monday, Wednesday, Friday – 10 A.M. To 6 P.M.
Tuesday – 1 P.M. to 8 P.M.
Thursday – 10 A.M. to 8 P.M.
Saturday – 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.
Sunday -- Closed

In addition, the administrative record file is available
on-line at:

https://www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-plume




                                                           12
Figure 1 - Site Location Map
        APPENDIX V

RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY
  Attachment C- Public Notice
                                                                        pesz dyplomatycznych i dokumentów amerykañ-          mowych dotycz¹cych ich syna, lecz ¿adne z
                                                                        skich si³ zbrojnych, które nastêpnie by³y publiko-   rodziców odpowiednio nie zareagowa³o.
                                                                        wane na portalu WikiLeaks.                             W niedzielê, 7 kwietnia 2024 roku, pokrywa
(ceny benzyny REGULAR i zmiana w dolarach od ub. tygodnia)                Minister spraw zagranicznych Rosji Siergiej        silnika samolotu Boeing 737-800 linii lotniczych
                                                                        £awrow odby³ dwudniow¹ wizytê w Pekinie,             Southwest Airlines odpad³a podczas startu z
  USA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,630     + 0,063     gdzie spotka³ siê ze swoim chiñskim odpowiedni-      lotniska w Denver. Maszyna zawróci³a i bez-
  Nowy Jork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,442             + 0,041     kiem Wang Yi. Jak zapewnia £awrow: "Wiêzi            piecznie wyl¹dowa³a na lotnisku, nikt nie ucier-
  Bary³ka ropy . . . . . . . . . . . . 85,64                  - 0,95    miêdzy Rosj¹ a Chinami osi¹gnê³y bezpreceden-        pia³. Federalna Administracja Lotnictwa (FAA)
                                                                        sowy poziom dziêki przywódcom tych krajów".          wszczê³a œledztwo. Samolot ze 135 pasa¿erami i
                                                                        Szef MSZ Rosji podkreœli³, ¿e "Rosja i Chiny bê-     szeœcioma cz³onkami za³ogi na pok³adzie mia³
                                                                        d¹ nadal wspó³pracowaæ w walce z terroryzmem         lecieæ do Houston. Maszyna zosta³a wyproduko-
                                                                        w ramach stale zacieœniaj¹cych siê relacji".         wana w 2015 roku. To kolejny incydent samo-
     (przyk³adowe ceny w ró¿nych miastach New Jersey)                     Do biblioteki w Fort Collins, w stanie Kolorado,   lotów Boeinga w ostatnich miesi¹cach. Wczeœniej
                                                                        zwrócono powieœæ, któr¹ czytelnik powinien by³       informowano o licznych awariach modeli rodzi-
  Bronx - B&G Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,199                  oddaæ najpóŸniej 13 lutego 1919 roku. Ksi¹¿ka        ny 737-MAX. W dniu 5 stycznia 2024 roku, w
   1243 E. Tremont Ave.                                                 - powieœæ historyczna "Ivenhoe" Waltera Scotta       nowym samolocie Boeing 737-MAX 9 linii
  Staten Island - Mobil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,239           - zawêdrowa³a z wypo¿yczalni w Kolorado a¿ do        Alaska Airlines, podczas lotu odpad³y drzwi
   1774 Victory Blvd.                                                   Kansas, gdzie zosta³a ostatnio odnaleziona w rze-    ewakuacyjne.
  Brooklyn - BP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,299   czach po zmar³ej starszej pani. Gdyby biblioteka       Na miesi¹c wiêzienia oraz trzy miesi¹ce aresztu
   765 Pennsylvania Ave.                                                nadal pobiera³a op³aty za przetrzymane ksi¹¿ki       domowego skazano mieszkankê Florydy, Aimee
  Manhattan - Shell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,699         (wynosi³y one 2 centy za ka¿dy dzieñ) czytelnik      Harris, za to, ¿e w 2020 roku ukrad³a pamiêtnik
   1599 Lexington Ave.                                                  winny spóŸnieniu o ponad 38 tysiêcy dni musia³-      córki prezydenta Bidena, Ashley. Harris sprzeda³a
                                                                        by zap³aciæ oko³o 760 dolarów. Gdyby jednak          pamiêtnik córki prezydenta za kilkadziesi¹t tysiê-
 Ceny z dnia: 11 IV 2024 r., godz. 4 pm                                 stawki uwzglêdnia³y wp³yw inflacji, kara powin-      cy dolarów, organizacji Project Veritas, specjali-
                                                                        na przekroczyæ 14 tysiêcy dolarów. W 1919 roku       zuj¹cej siê w zbieraniu kompromituj¹cych mate-
   PRZEGL¥D TYGODNIA                                                    bilet do kina kosztowa³ 15 centów, nowy samo-        ria³ów na amerykañskich polityków, urzêdników
Trudno powiedzieæ czy do rozejmu w ogóle doj-                           chód marki Chevrolet - 525 dolarów, a przeciêtny     i dzia³aczy, zwi¹zanych z demokratami. W s¹dzie
dzie, gdy¿ Izrael przeprowadzi³ atak, w którym                          dochód amerykañskiego gospodarstwa domowe-           stwierdzono, ¿e Harris najpierw próbowa³a sprze-
zginêli trzej synowie lidera Hamasu, Ismaila Ha-                        go wynosi³ niespe³na 3,3 tysi¹ca dolarów rocz-       daæ pamiêtnik komitetowi wyborczemu Donalda
nijji, na sta³e rezyduj¹cego w Katarze. Bracia                          nie. Na szczêœcie biblioteka zrezygnowa³a przed      Trumpa w 2020 roku, ale bezskutecznie.
Hazem, Ameer i Mohammed Hanijja zginêli po                              czterema laty z wyci¹gania powa¿nych konsek-           Nie ¿yje polska lekarka z Long Island w No-
tym, jak samochód, którym jechali, zosta³                               wencji finansowych wobec spóŸnialskich czy-          wym Jorku. Doktor Monika Woroniecka zgi-
zbombardowany w pobli¿u obozu dla uchodŸców                             telników (w tym wypadku przetrzymanie wy-            nê³a w wypadku na drodze stanowej 12E w
w Strefie Gazy.                                                         nios³o 105 lat).                                     Watertown. 58-latka wypad³a z ci¹gniêtej przez
  Wed³ug prezydenta Ukrainy Wo³odymyra Ze-                                S¹d stanowy w Michigan skaza³ Jamesa i Jenni-      samochód przyczepy kempingowej na oczach
³enskiego, by³y prezydent USA Donald Trump                              fer Crumbley'ów na karê 10-15 lat wiêzienia za       swojej córki i jej ch³opaka. Rodzina by³a w dro-
wyrazi³ chêæ odwiedzenia Ukrainy, ale nie wie,                          nieumyœlne spowodowanie œmierci w zwi¹zku z          dze na kemping, z którego razem mieli obser-
kiedy bêdzie móg³ przybyæ. Ukraina znajduje siê                         zabiciem przez ich 15-letniego syna Ethana czte-     wowaæ poniedzia³kowe zaæmienie S³oñca.
w najgorszym kryzysie od czasu rosyjskiej inwazji                       rech szkolnych kolegów w 2021 roku. Og³aszaj¹c       Monika Woroniecka znajdowa³a siê w przycze-
w lutym 2022 roku: si³om zbrojnym koñczy siê                            wyrok, prowadz¹ca proces sêdzia Cheryl Mat-          pie Airstream, ci¹gniêtej przez Dodge’a Rama,
amunicja, a obrona powietrzna nie jest ju¿ w sta-                       thews oznajmi³a, ¿e wysoki wymiar kary w             prowadzonego przez jej mê¿a, kiedy nag³y po-
nie odpieraæ rosyjskich ataków. S¹ te¿ problemy                         pierwszym procesie tego typu w Stanach Zjedno-       dmuch wiatru spowodowa³ otwarcie drzwi
z rekrutacj¹ nowych ¿o³nierzy do ukraiñskiej ar-                        czonych ma s³u¿yæ jako czynnik odstraszaj¹cy         przyczepy. Motocykliœci, którzy jechali za nimi,
mii. Tymczasem Moskwa intensyfikuje naloty                              dla innych rodziców, ignoruj¹cych problemy           stwierdzili, ¿e widzieli otwarte drzwi na boku
bombowe na ukraiñskie miasta, mówi siê o nowej                          psychiczne swoich dzieci. Sêdzia Matthews zazna-     przyczepy oraz rêkê Moniki Woronieckiej, siê-
du¿ej ofensywie na Charków. Prawdopodobnie                              czy³a, ¿e rodzice otrzymali wiele sygna³ów alar-     gaj¹c¹ klamki.           ci¹g dalszy na str. 4
jest to jeden z powodów, dla których Ze³enski
skontaktowa³ siê z Donaldem Trumpem, republi-
kañskim kandydatem na prezydenta. To on blo-
kuje pakiet pomocowy. "Sam do niego nie dzwo-
ni³em. Zaprosiliœmy go na Ukrainê zarówno pub-
licznie, jak i niepublicznie" - powiedzia³ Ze³enski.                        EPA ZAPRASZA MIESZKAÑCÓW DO ZG£ASZANIA UWAG NA TEMAT
Zaproszenie Trumpa do Kijowa mo¿e mieæ te¿                                 PROPONOWANEGO PLANU OCZYSZCZANIA DOTYCZ¥CEGO OBSZARU
zwi¹zek z "tajnym planem" Donalda Trumpa na
zakoñczenie wojny na Ukrainie. Wed³ug "Wa-                                  ZANIECZYSZCZEÑ MEEKER AVENUE PLUME, OBJÊTEGO PROGRAMEM
shington Post", plan Donalda Trumpa polega na                                   SUPERFUND, W DZIELNICY BROOKLYN, W NOWYM JORKU
wywarciu presji na Kijów, by oddaæ Rosji Don-
bas i Krym. Wed³ug by³ego prezydenta Stanów                             Amerykañska Agencja Ochrony Œrodowiska (Environmental Protection Agency, EPA) zwraca
Zjednoczonych, mieszkañcy tej czêœci Ukrainy                            siê do mieszkañców o wyra¿enie opinii na temat proponowanego przez ni¹ planu
nie mieliby nic przeciwko ¿yciu pod rz¹dami                             oczyszczania dotycz¹cego potencjalnych oparów, które mog¹ przedostawaæ siê do budynków
Federacji Rosyjskiej.                                                   mieszkalnych i komercyjnych, znajduj¹cych siê na obszarze zanieczyszczeñ Meeker Avenue
  Prezydent USA Joe Biden powiedzia³, ¿e rozwa-                         Plume, objêtym programem Superfund, w dzielnicy Brooklyn w Nowym Jorku.
¿a wniosek Australii o zaprzestanie œcigania za³o-
¿yciela Wikileaks, Juliana Assange’a, co trwa ju¿                       EPA przyjmuje uwagi mieszkañców na temat proponowanego planu oczyszczania tego
od dekady. Australia od lat wzywa USA o wyco-                           obszaru od pi¹tku, 5 kwietnia 2024 r. do wtorku, 11 czerwca 2024 r. Przed podjêciem
fanie oskar¿enia przeciwko Assange’owi, oby-                            ostatecznej decyzji EPA uwzglêdni uwagi zg³oszone w wyznaczonym okresie. Zachêcamy
watelowi Australii, który przebywa obecnie w                            mieszkañców do zapoznania siê z planem, wziêcia udzia³u w spotkaniu publicznym i
brytyjskim areszcie i walczy przed miejscowym                           zg³aszania uwag na temat proponowanej opcji oczyszczania. Uwagi mo¿na wys³aæ emailem
wymiarem sprawiedliwoœci o unikniêcie ekstra-                           na adres ketu.rupika@epa.gov lub poczt¹ do Rupika Ketu, US EPA, 290 Broadway, 18th Floor,
dycji do USA. Assange'owi postawiono formalnie                          New York, NY 10007-1866, najpóŸniej do 10 maja 2024 r.
w USA 17 zarzutów o szpiegostwo i jeden zarzut
niew³aœciwego u¿ycia komputera w zwi¹zku z                              W dniu 16 kwietnia 2024 r. o godzinie 6pm EPA zorganizuje stacjonarne spotkanie publiczne
publikacj¹ na jego stronie internetowej zbioru                          w celu omówienia proponowanego planu oczyszczania. Spotkanie odbêdzie siê w dolnym
tajnych dokumentów prawie 15 lat temu. Amery-                           Koœciele œw. Stanis³awa Kostki przy 607 Humboldt Street, Brooklyn, NY. W celu uzyskania
kañscy prokuratorzy utrzymuj¹, ¿e 52-letni As-                          bardziej szczegó³owych informacji nale¿y skontaktowaæ siê z Ann¹ Drabek, koordynatorem
sange zachêca³ i pomaga³ oficerowi wywiadu                              EPA ds. zaanga¿owania spo³ecznoœci, pod adresem drabek.anna@epa.gov lub wejœæ na
wojskowego USA, w celu wykradzenia treœci de-                           stronê https://www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-plume.
                                                                                          Lockman, Inc. in Richmond Hill is
                                                                                          looking for a full-time locksmith, com-
                                                                                          mercial experience and driver's license
                                                                                          required, $20-$30/h. Email: ken@lock-
                                                                                          mansystems.com or call: (718) 849-7556
 EPA ZAPRASZA MIESZKAÑCÓW DO ZG£ASZANIA UWAG NA TEMAT                                     potrzebna opiekunka do pracy w La’-
PROPONOWANEGO PLANU OCZYSZCZANIA DOTYCZ¥CEGO OBSZARU                                      Dorch Home Care do opieki, towarzy-
                                                                                          stwa i prac domowych, wymagane
 ZANIECZYSZCZEÑ MEEKER AVENUE PLUME, OBJÊTEGO PROGRAMEM                                   pozwolenie na pracê i certyfikat HHA
     SUPERFUND, W DZIELNICY BROOKLYN, W NOWYM JORKU                                       lub PCA. Tel.: (929) 679-0201
                                                                                          La’Dorch Home Care seeks a certified
Amerykañska Agencja Ochrony Œrodowiska (Environmental Protection Agency, EPA)             home health aide to assist in daily living
zwraca siê do mieszkañców o wyra¿enie opinii na temat proponowanego przez ni¹             and personal care services in patients’
planu oczyszczania dotycz¹cego potencjalnych oparów, które mog¹ przedostawaæ              homes, must be authorized to work
                                                                                          and have an HHA or PCA certificate.
siê do budynków mieszkalnych i komercyjnych, znajduj¹cych siê na obszarze                 Call: (929) 679-0201
zanieczyszczeñ Meeker Avenue Plume, objêtym programem Superfund, w dzielnicy              Techvalens zatrudni osobê do wprowa-
Brooklyn, w Nowym Jorku.                                                                  dzania danych, wymagana dok³adnoœæ
                                                                                          i znajomoœæ obs³ugi komputera i pro-
EPA przed³u¿y³a okres zg³aszania uwag i przyjmuje uwagi mieszkañców na                    gramów Microsoft Office. Email:
                                                                                          mohit.techvalensoftware@tuta.io po
temat proponowanego planu oczyszczania tego obszaru do wtorku, 25 czerwca
                                                                                          angielsku
2024 r. Przed podjêciem ostatecznej decyzji EPA uwzglêdni uwagi zg³oszone w               Techvalens is looking to hire a data
wyznaczonym okresie. Zachêcamy mieszkañców do zapoznania siê z planem i do                entry clerk, must be able to accurately
zg³aszania uwag na temat proponowanej opcji oczyszczania. Uwagi mo¿na wys³aæ              review and input data and use Micro-
emailem na adres ketu.rupika@epa.gov lub poczt¹ do Rupika Ketu, US EPA, 290               soft Office suite and internet. Email:
                                                                                          mohit.techvalensoftware@tuta.io
Broadway, 18th Floor, New York, NY 10007-1866, najpóŸniej do 25 czerwca 2024 r.
                                                                                          Je¿eli szukasz pracy w NJ, przej-
        zatrudnimy osobê do dyspozy-        potrzebna opiekunka i asystentka do            rzyj poni¿sz¹ ofertê. Wiêcej po-
         torni, konieczna znajomoœæ ksiê-   59-letniego pana na wózku inwalidzkim,         dobnych ofert znajdziesz w wy-
         gowoœci, prowadzenia biura, lo-    pomoc przy codziennych czynnoœciach            daniu "abecad³a" z New Jersey.
gistyki i obs³ugi zleceñ w bran¿y trans-    i pracach domowych, przenoszenie z
portowej, praca na ca³y etat (z domu),      wózka, wymagany jêzyk angielski i            Oferty pracy z New Jersey
wymagany bieg³y jêzyk angielski i dob-      szczepionka przeciwko covid, praca w          zatrudniê stylistkê fryzur oraz asystent-
ra organizacja pracy, sta³e wynagrodze-     Battery Park City, 3 ca³odobowe dy¿ury        kê do salonu w Butler, NJ, praca na
nie plus bonusy. Tel.: (347) 225-7078       tygodniowo, $900-$1200. Przeœlij CV           ca³y lub pó³ etatu, przyuczymy odpo-
looking for a seamstress with experience    na email: JosephGWayne@gmail.com              wiedni¹ osobê. Tel.: (973) 271-7002
to work on wedding dress alterations        lub SMS: (929) 280-2938 po angielsku          potrzebna opiekunka do starszej osoby
in Manhattan. Call: (212) 764-1701          assistant/caregiver wanted for a 59-year-     w Haworth, NJ, praca z zamieszkaniem,
zatrudniê stolarza, z bardzo dobrym doœ-    -old disabled, professional man who           od 9am w poniedzia³ki do 9am w soboty,
wiadczeniem, do produkcji i instalacji      uses a wheelchair, help with daily living     jêzyk angielski nie wymagany. Tel.:
mebli na zamówienie, dobre wynagro-         activities, housekeeping, exercise and        (201) 387-7154
dzenie, praca na czek rozliczeniowy.        wheelchair transferring, must speak           szukam pracownika do instalacji base-
Tel.: (718) 344-0535                        English and be vaccinated for Covid-19,       nów, okolice Linden, NJ. Tel.: (908)
pracownia artystyczna zatrudni uzdol-       work in a high-rise condominium in            296-8242
nion¹ manualnie osobê do renowacji an-      Battery Park City, 3 shifts lasting 24        potrzebna kobieta do sprz¹tania w due-
tyków, doœwiadczenie nie wymagane,          hours, $900-1200 per week. Email              cie, praca na zastêpstwo, od 1 maja do
mo¿liwoœæ przyuczenia, sta³a praca na       resume: JosephGWayne@gmail.com                25 maja, bardzo dobre zarobki. Tel.:
pe³ny etat w West Palm Beach, FL.           or text: (929) 280-2938                       (201) 704-3167 Ma³gorzata
Tel.: (786) 498-4406                        firma transportowa Alcatraz w Saint           potrzebny pomocnik oraz murarz do
restauracja Texas Chicken w NYC za-         Louis, Missouri, poszukuje osoby do           pracy na budowie, dobre zarobki. Tel.:
trudni pracownika na pe³ny etat, oferu-     pracy w dyspozytorni (dispatcher), z          (201) 655-2127
jemy ubezpieczenie zdrowotne, okuli-        doœwiadczeniem lub bez, odpowiedni¹           poszukujê niani do pomocy przy 11-mie-
styczne i dentystyczne, $15-$21/godz.       osobê przyuczymy i pomo¿emy z prze-           siêcznym dziecku, praca w moim domu
Tel.: (347) 780-3009 Sam lub Elijah,        prowadzk¹ i znalezieniem mieszkania.          na 2 dni w tygodniu od 8:30am do 5:30pm,
po angielsku                                Tel.: (314) 892-7200 lub (314) 435-3611       $16/godz. Email: eternity88i@yahoo.com
szukam osób z samochodem, które mo-         potrzebny œlusarz do firmy Lockman,           firma zajmuj¹ca siê instalacj¹ mebli
g¹, za niewielk¹ op³at¹, przewieŸæ 9        Inc. w Richmond Hill, wymagane doœ-           poszukuje pomocnika do pracy na tere-
lipca artystów gdañskiego chóru Non         wiadczenie i prawo jazdy, $20-$30/godz.       nie NJ, mi³a atmosfera, dobre wyna-
Serio z lotniska LaGuardia do Our La-       Email: ken@lockmansystems.com lub             grodzenie dla odpowiedniej osoby.
dy of Mount Carmel Shrine i odwieŸæ         tel.: (718) 849-7556, po angielsku            Tel.: (201) 598-2468
na lotnisko JFK 14 lipca. Tel.: (718)
314-4028
                                            polski sklep na Staten Island zatrudni
                                            osobê do pracy na ca³y lub pó³ etatu, doœ-
                                                                                         Poszukiwanie pracy
firma zajmuj¹ca siê instalacj¹ szafek       wiadczenie mile widziane, wystarczy                   poszukujê pracy jako towarzysz-
kuchennych potrzebuje fachowców i           minimalny jêzyk angielski, wynagrodze-                 ka lub opiekunka do starszej
pomocników, praca w NY, dobre zarobki.      nie w zale¿noœci od doœwiadczenia. SMS:                osoby. Tel.: (347) 546-7855
Tel.: (201) 953-2175 Micha³                 (917) 991-4441 lub email: jn72@aol.com                odpowiedzialna, opiekuñcza i
potrzebny doœwiadczony mechanik sa-         potrzebna dziewczyna do pracy jako            pracowita Polka szuka pracy jako
mochodowy do pracy w Hollis, praca          ekspedientka w popularnej cukierni            opiekunka do starszej osoby lub jako
na ca³y etat lub pó³ etatu. Tel.: (718)     na Greenpoincie, praca na weekendy.           gospodyni, ma bardzo dobre referencje.
207-2816 po angielsku                       SMS: (718) 877-1357                           Tel.: (347) 664-0186 Anna
4/11/24, 3:36 PM                                                     Greenpoint This Week


    Subscribe             Past Issues                                                              Translate




                      Offerings from Bagel Joint, making their Smorgasburg debut this Saturday.
                                          Image courtesy of Brooklyn Flea.



                                 Greenpoint This Week:

                   Good afternoon, Greenpointers.

                   How about that earthquake, huh? With Monday's big solar eclipse it feels like a
                   harbinger of something; should we be looking for Godzilla?

                   Or it could mean we're in for an exciting weekend. In any case, check out our
                   roundup of things to do here.

                   This week's news was mostly food-related. Smorgasburg is back! A few
                   Williamsburg spots made the New York Times' top 100 best restaurants
                   (Greenpoint got snubbed).

                   Two new bars to look out for—Animal and Bar Madonna.
https://mailchi.mp/greenpointers/greenpoint-this-week-3-29-2850737                                             1/3
4/11/24, 3:36 PM                                                     Greenpoint This Week


    Subscribe
                   We profiled an upcoming pop-up at Hana Makgeolli and spoke to the team at Translate
                        Past Issues
                   Republic Latin Fusion. We also got some preliminary details on the new bakery
                   and restaurant opening in the revamped Domino Sugar Factory. As always, we
                   have a Community Cookbook recipe.

                   The line at Radio Bakery snakes down the block on the weekends, so
                   neighbors decided to make some money from it. Appliance rental service Green
                   Gooding just launched a delivery service.

                   Is there any point in sharing an April Fools' Day article? Well, here it is. The
                   venue Dead Letter No. 9 has reopened with new programming.

                   A legitimately affordable resident building, 35 Commercial Street, opened in
                   Greenpoint.




                   EPA INVITES PUBLIC COMMENT ON THE PROPOSED CLEANUP PLAN
                   FOR THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE IN BROOKLYN,
                   NEW YORK


                   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is asking the public for input
                   on its proposed cleanup plan to address the potential vapors that may be
                   entering into residential and commercial buildings at the Meeker Avenue Plume
                   Superfund site in Brooklyn, New York.

                   The EPA is accepting comments from the public on the proposed cleanup plan
                   for this site from Friday April 05, 2024 to Friday May 10, 2024. The EPA will
                   consider comments submitted during the comment period before making a final
                   decision. The public is encouraged to review the plan, attend the public
                   meeting, and comment on the proposed cleanup alternative. Comments may
                   be emailed to ketu.rupika@epa.gov or mailed to Rupika Ketu, US EPA, 290
                   Broadway, 18 th Floor, New York, NY 10007-1866 no later than May 10th,
                   2024.

                   The EPA will hold an in-person public meeting to discuss the proposed cleanup
                   plan on April 16th, 2024 at 6:00 p.m. at St. Stanislaus Kostka Lower Church,
https://mailchi.mp/greenpointers/greenpoint-this-week-3-29-2850737                                       2/3
4/11/24, 3:36 PM                                                          Greenpoint This Week

                   607 Humboldt St, Brooklyn, NY.
    Subscribe             Past Issues                                                                      Translate

                   For more information, please contact EPA’s Community Involvement
                   Coordinator, Anna Drabek at
                   drabek.anna@epa.gov or visit https://www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-avenue-
                   plume.


                                               In and around North Brooklyn

                   Greenpoint’s trendiest new brand? The fashion club at St. Stanislaus Kostka
                   Catholic Academy.

                   If you can’t find a parking spot, take a cue from the 94th precinct, and create
                   your own.

                   JJ’s Southern Vegan gets a feature in Hell Gate.




                                                      More on Greenpointers.com




                                               Copyright © 2024 Greenpointers, All rights reserved.



                                                  Want to change how you receive these emails?
                                          You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list.




https://mailchi.mp/greenpointers/greenpoint-this-week-3-29-2850737                                                     3/3
5/8/24, 10:19 AM                                                     Greenpoint This Week


    Subscribe             Past Issues                                                          Translate




                                A spread from Sereneco, who just got a new executive chef.



                                 Greenpoint This Week:

                   Good afternoon, Greenpointers.

                   Welcome to the weekend!

                   And what a weekend it should be. 4/20, Record Store Day, and Earth Day
                   celebrations all abound. Check out our weekend roundup for some specific
                   ideas (like this Peter Pop art show).

                   Good Williamsburg news: A Williamsburg duo has a new film set to make its
                   debut (and it was filmed in Greenpoint!). Bad Williamsburg news: North
                   Brooklyn Neighbors found high levels of lead in certain parts of McCarren Park.

https://mailchi.mp/greenpointers/greenpoint-this-week-4-12-2850745                                         1/4
5/8/24, 10:19 AM                                                     Greenpoint This Week


    Subscribe
                   We have  a Behind the Toque with Sereneco’s new chef and a Community
                         Past Issues                                                           Translate
                   Cookbook recipe from Hana Makgeolli. Park Deli will transform into a sit-down
                   restaurant, likely by next week.

                   Bathhouse has submitted plans to remove the Hecla Iron Works water tower.

                   A sad story this week— a driver in South Williamsburg hit and killed a ten-year-
                   old girl. Our hearts go out to the families affected.




                   EPA INVITES PUBLIC COMMENT ON THE PROPOSED CLEANUP PLAN
                   FOR THE MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE IN BROOKLYN,
                   NEW YORK

                   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is asking the public for input
                   on its proposed cleanup plan to address the potential vapors that may be
                   entering into residential and commercial buildings at the Meeker Avenue Plume
                   Superfund site in Brooklyn, New York.


                   The EPA has extended the public comment period and is accepting comments
                   from the public on the proposed cleanup plan for this site until Tuesday, June
                   25, 2024. The EPA will consider comments submitted during the comment
                   period before making a final decision. The public is encouraged to
                   review the plan and comment on the proposed cleanup alternative. Comments
                   may be emailed to ketu.rupika@epa.gov or mailed to Rupika Ketu, US EPA,
                   290 Broadway, 18 th Floor, New York, NY 10007-1866 no later than June 25th,
                   2024.




https://mailchi.mp/greenpointers/greenpoint-this-week-4-12-2850745                                         2/4
5/8/24, 10:19 AM                                                     Greenpoint This Week


    Subscribe             Past Issues                                                               Translate




                                    CALLING ALL LOCAL ARTISTS!
                             Artist sign-ups for Greenpoint Open Studios 2024 are now live!

                         The deadline to sign up is May 20th! This year’s event is happening on
                                               Saturday June 1st & Sunday June 2nd.

                       Since 2016, GOS has offered local artists with the unique opportunity to
                      showcase their work and connect directly to the public. This weekend long
                        celebration builds and celebrates the creative community in Greenpoint.

                        If you have any kind of creative work to show, whether it is in painting,
                       performance art, digital art, book designs, or even handcrafted items like
                    jewelry and shoes, you should participate as long as you have a space in the
                                           neighborhood of Greenpoint.



https://mailchi.mp/greenpointers/greenpoint-this-week-4-12-2850745                                              3/4
5/8/24, 10:19 AM                                                          Greenpoint This Week


    Subscribe             Past Issues                                                                      Translate
                                               In and around North Brooklyn

                   City Council Member Lincoln Restler went on NY1's Inside City Hall to talk
                   about bills regulating lobbying efforts.

                   The Williamsburg location of Veselka is getting closer to opening.




                                                      More on Greenpointers.com




                                               Copyright © 2024 Greenpointers, All rights reserved.



                                                Want to change how you receive these emails?
                                          You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list.




https://mailchi.mp/greenpointers/greenpoint-this-week-4-12-2850745                                                     4/4
7/29/24, 8:45 AM                                               EPA przyjmuje uwagi mieszkańców - Nowy Dziennik




                                                                                                                 SZUKAJ



                                                                                          Jesteśmy z Polonią od 1971 r.

         Nowy Dziennik              Wiadomości             Nowy Jork            EPA przyjmuje uwagi mieszkańców

           WIADOMOŚCI               NOWY JORK            POLONIA




         EPA przyjmuje uwagi mieszkańców
              05.04.2024

                                                   Lubię to!




          EPA ZAPRASZA MIESZKAŃCÓW DO ZGŁASZANIA UWAG NA TEMAT
          PROPONOWANEGO PLANU OCZYSZCZANIA DOTYCZĄCEGO OBSZARU
          ZANIECZYSZCZEŃ MEEKER AVENUE PLUME OBJĘTEGO PROGRAMEM SUPERFUND
          W DZIELNICY BROOKLYN W NOWYM JORKU



https://dziennik.com/epa-przyjmuje-uwagi-mieszkancow/                                                                     1/7
7/29/24, 8:45 AM                                               EPA przyjmuje uwagi mieszkańców - Nowy Dziennik

          Amerykańska Agencja Ochrony Środowiska (Environmental Protection Agency, EPA)
          zwraca się do mieszkańców o wyrażenie opinii na temat proponowanego przez nią
          planu oczyszczania dotyczącego potencjalnych oparów, które mogą przedostawać się
          do budynków mieszkalnych i komercyjnych, znajdujących się na obszarze
          zanieczyszczeń Meeker Avenue Plume objętym programem Superfund, w dzielnicy
          Brooklyn w Nowym Jorku.

          EPA przyjmuje uwagi mieszkańców na temat proponowanego planu oczyszczania tego
          obszaru od piątku 5 kwietnia 2024 r. do piątku 10 maja 2024 r. Przed podjęciem
          ostatecznej decyzji EPA uwzględni uwagi zgłoszone w wyznaczonym okresie.
          Zachęcamy mieszkańców do zapoznania się z planem, wzięcia udziału w spotkaniu
          publicznym i zgłaszania uwag na temat proponowanej opcji oczyszczania. Uwagi
          można wysłać e-mailem na adres ketu.rupika@epa.gov lub pocztą do Rupika Ketu, US
          EPA, 290 Broadway, 18th Floor, New York, NY 10007-1866, najpóźniej do 10 maja
          2024 r.

          W dniu 16 kwietnia 2024 r. o godzinie 18:00 EPA zorganizuje stacjonarne spotkanie
          publiczne w celu omówienia proponowanego planu oczyszczania. Spotkanie odbędzie
          się w Dolnym Kościele św. Stanisława Kostki, przy 607 Humboldt St, Brooklyn, NY. W
          celu uzyskania bardziej szczegółowych informacji należy skontaktować się z Anną
          Drabek, koordynatorem EPA ds. zaangażowania społeczności, pod adresem
          drabek.anna@epa.gov lub wejść na stronę https://www.epa.gov/superfund/meeker-
          avenue-plume


                                                   Lubię to!




      Dodaj komentarz
      Musisz się zalogować, aby móc dodać komentarz.



          Tagi         Nowy Jork            Polonia            Brooklyn         meeker ave


        PODOBNE ARTYKUŁY



https://dziennik.com/epa-przyjmuje-uwagi-mieszkancow/                                                            2/7
            APPENDIX V

    RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY
Attachment D- Public Meeting Transcript
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting

 ·1

 ·2

 ·3

 ·4

 ·5

 ·6

 ·7

 ·8

 ·9
 · · · · · · · · ·Transcript of Video File:
 10
 · · · ·UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
 11
 · · ·MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
 12
 · · · · · · · · · · · ·April 16, 2024
 13

 14
 · · · · Video Runtime:· 1 Hour 14 Minutes 22 Seconds
 15

 16

 17

 18

 19

 20

 21

 22

 23

 24

 25


www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                   Page 2
 ·1· · · · · · ·(Beginning of Video Recording.)
 ·2· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Be careful.
 ·3· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· Thank you.
 ·4· · · · · · ·All right.· Hello.· Welcome, everyone.· Thank
 ·5· ·you so much for coming out.· This is the Meeker Avenue
 ·6· ·Plume Superfund Site proposed plan public meeting.· As
 ·7· ·you know, we released a proposed plan for addressing
 ·8· ·contamination at the site earlier this month.· And now
 ·9· ·is the chance for us to kind of explain it in depth and
 10· ·then to answer any questions, take any comments you may
 11· ·have.· So I will just go over a few points, and then
 12· ·we'll go ahead and begin.
 13· · · · · · ·So hopefully, when you walked in, you saw a
 14· ·sign-in sheet.· If you didn't sign it, I'm going to
 15· ·pass it around.· Please just put your name and e-mail.
 16· ·And then if you're not yet on our e-mail list, I'll
 17· ·make sure you're added so you can receive regular
 18· ·updates.· We do also have a glossary of terms that
 19· ·we'll be using throughout the meeting at the table in
 20· ·the back.· I'll kind of walk around and wave them
 21· ·around in case anyone would like one and doesn't have.
 22· · · · · · ·We have headsets for (foreign language
 23· ·spoken) we have headsets for translation.· Just wanted
 24· ·to make sure folks are aware of that.· This meeting is
 25· ·being recorded.· We have a videographer who will then

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                   Page 3
 ·1· ·transcribe everything that we say, and then that
 ·2· ·transcription will be part of the formal -- the final
 ·3· ·plan, the record of decision in a few months.· So just
 ·4· ·wanted to make sure folks are aware of that.· We'll
 ·5· ·have a presentation and then questions and answers and
 ·6· ·comments.· All of those will be in the official record
 ·7· ·as well.· And then bathrooms are in the back.· On the
 ·8· ·left-hand side, there's a little sign for anyone who
 ·9· ·may need.
 10· · · · · · ·I think that is it.· I'd like to introduce
 11· ·the EPA team that's here.· So I'm Anna Drabek.· I'm the
 12· ·community involvement coordinator for the site.· Should
 13· ·have said that maybe in the beginning.· The two project
 14· ·managers are here, Rupika Ketu, who will be giving the
 15· ·presentation, and John Brennan.· Then Stephanie Vaughn,
 16· ·the site supervisor, is with us.· We have Andrea
 17· ·Leshak, the site attorney, and then Carlos Vega, who's
 18· ·our press officer.· So any members of the press, please
 19· ·approach Carlos if you have any questions.· I think
 20· ·that's it.· All right.
 21· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Thanks, Anna.
 22· · · · · · ·Hi, everyone.· I'm Rupika.· I'm one of the
 23· ·project managers for the site.· And today, I'm going to
 24· ·be going over the proposed plan.· I'll start off with,
 25· ·you know, just some -- purpose of the meeting, why

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                   Page 4
 ·1· ·we're here today.· I'll give a brief history of the
 ·2· ·site and a site description.· I'll go through what
 ·3· ·vapor intrusion is.· I'll go through the Superfund
 ·4· ·process.· And then I'll give an overview of the vapor
 ·5· ·intrusion proposed plan itself.· And then we'll have
 ·6· ·plenty of time for questions and comments at the end.
 ·7· ·Can you-all hear me all right?· This is good?· Okay.
 ·8· ·Great.
 ·9· · · · · · ·So we're really here today to talk about our
 10· ·proposed plan for addressing site-related vapor
 11· ·intrusion in commercial and residential properties.· As
 12· ·some of you are aware, I've -- I see a lot of familiar
 13· ·faces.· You know, we're conducting a site-wide remedial
 14· ·investigation at the site, and we're expedited vapor --
 15· ·we're expediting vapor intrusion sampling in
 16· ·residential and commercial properties.· So this
 17· ·proposed plan is really so that we can mitigate any
 18· ·site-related vapor intrusion risks at these properties
 19· ·while we continue our site-wide investigation.· So
 20· ·they're going to both move in parallel.· And it's just
 21· ·an interim measure to mitigate any immediate risk to
 22· ·those living and working in this area.
 23· · · · · · ·And then down the line, once we complete our
 24· ·remedial investigation, we will be developing and
 25· ·evaluating cleanup methods for the entire site as well.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                   Page 5
 ·1· ·So just a brief description about the site.· The Meeker
 ·2· ·Avenue Plume Superfund site is located in the
 ·3· ·Greenpoint and East Williamsburg area of Brooklyn, New
 ·4· ·York.· And then on the right over there, we have our
 ·5· ·preliminary study area.· And you can see that it's next
 ·6· ·to Newtown Creek and -- and bisected by the BQE.· So in
 ·7· ·this area, the soil, soil gas, and groundwater are
 ·8· ·contaminated with chlorinated volatile organic
 ·9· ·compounds.· I know that's a mouthful.
 10· · · · · · ·So CVOCs for short.· And at the site, in the
 11· ·groundwater in particular and -- and vapor intrusion --
 12· ·for vapor intrusion, trichloroethylene and
 13· ·tetrachloroethylene are the main contaminants of
 14· ·concern for vapor intrusion.· Sorry.· And so these
 15· ·CVOCs are volatile organic compounds.· They are a
 16· ·subset of them that are substances that typically
 17· ·evaporate at room temperature, and they can affect the
 18· ·indoor air of properties that are located over an area
 19· ·that's contaminated with these compounds.· And you can
 20· ·find chlorinated volatile organic compounds in common
 21· ·household items such as cleaners, air fresheners and in
 22· ·building supplies, like paints.
 23· · · · · · ·And so you know, we're investigating the full
 24· ·nature and extent of this contamination throughout the
 25· ·site.· But, you know, today we're focusing on vapor

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                   Page 6
 ·1· ·intrusion because it is a health concern.
 ·2· ·Tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene have both
 ·3· ·cancer and non-cancer effects, so we're -- we're
 ·4· ·looking to mitigate any risk from those at the site.
 ·5· ·So just a brief history about the site.· Around 2005,
 ·6· ·2006, the New York State Department of Environmental
 ·7· ·Conservation was investigating -- or sorry, cleaning up
 ·8· ·the Greenpoint oil spill.· And they discovered these
 ·9· ·chlorinated volatile organic compounds in the
 10· ·groundwater as well, and that led to a series of
 11· ·investigations in the area between 2007 and 2022 where
 12· ·they tested the indoor air of over 160 properties and
 13· ·installed over 25 mitigation systems.
 14· · · · · · ·And then in March of 2022, EPA added the site
 15· ·to the Superfund National Priorities List, and that
 16· ·initiated our remedial investigation and feasibility
 17· ·study process for the site.· And I'll talk a little bit
 18· ·more about that in a few slides.· And so since November
 19· ·of 2022, we've been conducting groundwater sampling
 20· ·throughout the site and vapor intrusion investigations.
 21· ·And then on April 5th, we released our proposed plan
 22· ·for addressing vapor intrusion at the site.· And I just
 23· ·wanted to quickly show this map of other federal
 24· ·Superfund sites and state-led sites in the area.· So
 25· ·down here you have Gowanus in pink.· Oh, can you guys

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                   Page 7
 ·1· ·still hear me?· Okay.· And then the pink dash line --
 ·2· · · · · · ·Sorry.
 ·3· · · · · · ·Up here, that's the Meeker Avenue Plume
 ·4· ·Superfund site.· In yellow is the Greenpoint oil spill.
 ·5· ·And then in pink up top, you have the Newtown Creek
 ·6· ·Superfund Site.· And then around here, you also have
 ·7· ·the Wolff-Alport Superfund site that some of you might
 ·8· ·be familiar with.· So I just want to take a moment to
 ·9· ·briefly explain what vapor intrusion is in case, you
 10· ·know, you're new, and you haven't heard us talk about
 11· ·this before.· So I've mentioned that at, you know, the
 12· ·groundwater in this area is also contaminated with
 13· ·these chlorinated volatile organic compounds.· So in
 14· ·the past, at some point, these chlorinated volatile
 15· ·organic compounds entered the groundwater through
 16· ·unintentional or intentional releases.
 17· · · · · · ·But because these compounds are volatile,
 18· ·they don't like to stay in a liquid state.· So what
 19· ·they do is they move up through the soil, and they
 20· ·contaminate the air between soil particles, which is
 21· ·called soil vapor.· So then you have this contaminated
 22· ·soil vapor resulting from the groundwater that can then
 23· ·build up beneath the foundation of buildings.· And so
 24· ·you have this contaminated soil vapor built up beneath
 25· ·the buildings, and it can enter into the buildings

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                   Page 8
 ·1· ·through either breaks in the utility lines or cracks in
 ·2· ·the foundation of the building.· And that process
 ·3· ·itself is called vapor intrusion.· And luckily, that
 ·4· ·can be mitigated by using a sub-slab depressurization
 ·5· ·system.
 ·6· · · · · · ·And so the sub-slab depressurization system
 ·7· ·is similar to a radon system.· And it's basically a fan
 ·8· ·that draws out vapor from beneath the structure and
 ·9· ·redirects it out of the building, above the roof line
 10· ·so that those living or working in the building are not
 11· ·breathing those vapors in.· VI sampling, or Vapor
 12· ·Intrusion sampling, is typically conducted in the
 13· ·winter heating seasons because that's when vapor
 14· ·intrusion is most likely to occur.· That's because
 15· ·windows and doors are typically shut and HVAC systems
 16· ·are running, so it can perpetuate the ventilation of
 17· ·contaminated soil vapors indoors.· And it's typically -
 18· ·- soil vapor intrusion sampling is typically conducted
 19· ·on the basement and first floor because that's where
 20· ·you're most likely to find impacts.
 21· · · · · · ·And the way we do it is a three-day process.
 22· ·So on the first day, EPA arrives at the property at a
 23· ·pre-scheduled time, and we inspect the -- the property
 24· ·to make sure there aren't any background sources, such
 25· ·as cleaning products and paints, that might affect the

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                   Page 9
 ·1· ·sampling results.· And we take those.· We box them up
 ·2· ·and put them somewhere else so that they're, you know,
 ·3· ·not in the way.· And then what we do is we install a
 ·4· ·small sub-slab soil gas port, which is the size of a
 ·5· ·quarter, very small, through like the lowest level, so
 ·6· ·typically, a basement floor.· And this is used to
 ·7· ·sample the vapors from beneath the building.· So on the
 ·8· ·first day we install the port.· You typically only need
 ·9· ·one per home.
 10· · · · · · ·And then it's -- it's cemented through the
 11· ·slab or the floor of the building or property, but the
 12· ·port can be removed once the soil vapor sampling is
 13· ·complete.· And then we restore the floor to its
 14· ·preexisting conditions.· And this takes like usually
 15· ·between an hour and an hour and a half.· On the second
 16· ·day, we come back.· We make sure that the port is
 17· ·functioning properly.· We do a helium leak test to make
 18· ·sure that -- that it works.· And then we connect a
 19· ·sampling canister that looks like this to the port so
 20· ·that it can collect a sample from beneath the building,
 21· ·the soil vapor.· And then we place these sampling
 22· ·canisters throughout the basement and first floor as
 23· ·well.· They're just freestanding.· And these all stay
 24· ·in place for a period of about 24 hours.
 25· · · · · · ·And this takes, you know, an hour to hour and

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 10
 ·1· ·a half.· Sometimes it's faster.· And then on the third
 ·2· ·day, we just come back, and we pick up all the sampling
 ·3· ·canisters.· And we deliver them to the lab for
 ·4· ·analysis, and it typically takes at least 90 days to
 ·5· ·get results back.· And once we do, then we notify the
 ·6· ·property owner and the tenant of the results.· So just
 ·7· ·an update on our vapor intrusion sampling efforts.
 ·8· ·We've been working very hard to try and get access to
 ·9· ·as many properties as we can in the area.· Anna has
 10· ·been very good about going door to door.· She has gone
 11· ·down every single street.· We've also done mass
 12· ·mailings and social media outreach, so we're trying
 13· ·various methods.
 14· · · · · · ·We're working with the CAG also, Community
 15· ·Advisory Group in case you guys aren't familiar with
 16· ·the CAG, to -- to do additional outreach.· So they've
 17· ·been helping us out as well.· And so with those
 18· ·efforts, in the winter heating season of 2022 and 2023,
 19· ·we were able to test 13 residential properties, one
 20· ·public school, and the Cooper Park Houses complex,
 21· ·which is made up of 11 public housing buildings.· And
 22· ·then this past winter heating season between November
 23· ·and March of 2024, we were able to test 23 properties.
 24· · · · · · ·Out of these, we've determined that 15
 25· ·residential properties, Cooper Park Houses, and the

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 11
 ·1· ·public school require no further action.· Three
 ·2· ·properties require some additional sampling.· And then
 ·3· ·we're still evaluating data from the 18 remaining
 ·4· ·properties that were sampled in 2024.· And we're going
 ·5· ·to continue to conduct our vapor intrusion sampling
 ·6· ·throughout the next few heating seasons as time goes
 ·7· ·on.· So I just want to go through the Superfund process
 ·8· ·real quick.· I think some of you are familiar with
 ·9· ·this, but in case you're not, I wanted to explain, kind
 10· ·of, where the proposed plan falls in our process.
 11· · · · · · ·So in 1980, Congress established the
 12· ·Comprehensive Environmental Response and Liability Act
 13· ·-- sorry, Environmental Response, Compensation, and
 14· ·Liability Act, CERCLA for short and informally known as
 15· ·Superfund.· And so then this allows EPA to clean up
 16· ·contaminated sites, hold parties responsible for the
 17· ·contamination, or reimburse EPA or the government for
 18· ·costs for, like, EPA-led cleanups.· And so the
 19· ·Superfund process has several major phases, and it
 20· ·starts with the discovery of the contamination.· And
 21· ·that's when EPA goes out and does some investigations,
 22· ·some preliminary work to see if the site meets
 23· ·Superfund criteria to actually become a Superfund site.
 24· · · · · · ·Once we decide that, yes, it should be a
 25· ·Superfund site, we list it on the National Priorities

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 12
 ·1· ·List.· And then that allows us to conduct our remedial
 ·2· ·investigation and feasibility study.· So during the
 ·3· ·remedial investigation, we do a lot of sampling to
 ·4· ·determine, like, what the contaminants are, their
 ·5· ·concentrations, how they move around, where they're
 ·6· ·present.· And then we also conduct human health risk
 ·7· ·assessments and ecological risk assessments.· And that
 ·8· ·allows us to then come up with different ways or -- or
 ·9· ·evaluate different cleanup methods for the site.· And
 10· ·so once we do that -- and that's called a feasibility
 11· ·study, when we evaluate the different cleanup methods.
 12· · · · · · ·Once we do that, we then put our preferred --
 13· ·EPA's preferred cleanup method in a proposed plan.· And
 14· ·so that's what we're here to talk about today.· And so
 15· ·the proposed plan is then open for public comment and
 16· ·review.· And once we receive all the comments, we take
 17· ·a look at them.· We respond to each one.· And then
 18· ·based on that feedback, we then formalize the cleanup
 19· ·plan for the site in something called a record of
 20· ·decision.· And so once that's issued, then that allows
 21· ·us to actually implement the cleanup.· And then it goes
 22· ·through a -- a couple steps of actually designing the
 23· ·cleanup.· It's called remedial design.· And then
 24· ·remedial action is the actual implementation of the
 25· ·cleanup.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 13
 ·1· · · · · · ·And then after the cleanup method has been
 ·2· ·implemented, then we just periodically check to make
 ·3· ·sure that it's working.· So for this site specifically,
 ·4· ·for vapor intrusion -- sorry.· I just need to flip my
 ·5· ·page.· In general, our cleanup objectives are to
 ·6· ·prevent exposure to people in -- in commercial or
 ·7· ·residential buildings from -- from these site-related
 ·8· ·contaminated vapors.· And like I said,
 ·9· ·tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene are the main
 10· ·contaminants of concern for vapor intrusion at the
 11· ·site.· So they're abbreviated as PCE and TCE.· And then
 12· ·we also want to prevent the migration of these
 13· ·contaminated vapors indoors.
 14· · · · · · ·And so then this is the language that's from
 15· ·the proposed plan.· So you can take a look at that, but
 16· ·I just wanted to explain it in -- in simpler terms.
 17· ·And then these are the cleanup levels that we've
 18· ·identified for residential and commercial properties.
 19· ·The residential levels have been calculated to be
 20· ·protective of the most sensitive populations, including
 21· ·elderly folks, pregnant women, and young children.· And
 22· ·it's calculated over a period of 24 hours per day, 350
 23· ·days a year for 20 plus years.· And then the commercial
 24· ·levels assume an eight-hour workday, which is
 25· ·protective of most non-residential settings.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 14
 ·1· · · · · · ·So as part of the vapor intrusion proposed
 ·2· ·plan, we evaluated two cleanup alternatives.· One would
 ·3· ·-- the first one was no action.· Under no action, we
 ·4· ·would not take any action at the site.· We're legally
 ·5· ·required to evaluate no action, to establish a baseline
 ·6· ·to compare with other alternatives.· So that's why
 ·7· ·that's there.· And then the second alternative that we
 ·8· ·evaluated was vapor intrusion mitigation, which is: If
 ·9· ·we find an issue in the -- in the property or in your
 10· ·home, we would mitigate it by either installing a sub-
 11· ·slab depressurization system or sealing any cracks or
 12· ·gaps in the foundation if that can do it too.
 13· · · · · · ·And the way that we evaluate the alternatives
 14· ·is through nine criteria.· And so the first two
 15· ·criteria there, the threshold criteria, are -- are --
 16· ·are really important because any cleanup action that we
 17· ·select must comply with these two.· So it must comply
 18· ·with the appropriate laws and regulations and then be
 19· ·protective of human health and the environment.· And
 20· ·then we also look at five balancing criteria, and that
 21· ·includes how effective the -- the cleanup method will
 22· ·be in the short term and long term, the cost, is it
 23· ·implementable?· And so I just want to emphasize though
 24· ·that cost is just one of the balancing criteria, and --
 25· ·and these are all weighted equally.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 15
 ·1· · · · · · ·And then the last two are two modifying
 ·2· ·criteria, which are community acceptance and state
 ·3· ·acceptance.· And that's part of the reason why we're
 ·4· ·here today.· These we take into consideration after the
 ·5· ·proposed plan is issued, after we receive all the
 ·6· ·public comments, and then the State has already let us
 ·7· ·know that they concur with us on this action.· So in
 ·8· ·the proposed plan that we released on April 5th, we
 ·9· ·identified Alternative 2 as our proposed alternative.
 10· ·So in the event that we find any site-related vapor
 11· ·intrusion issues in a property, we would install a sub-
 12· ·slab depressurization system where necessary or use a
 13· ·preventative measure, such as sealing cracks and gaps
 14· ·in the foundation or the -- or the basement of a
 15· ·building.
 16· · · · · · ·And like I mentioned, the sub-slab
 17· ·depressurization system, sorry, involves connecting a
 18· ·blower, like small electric fan, to at least one
 19· ·suction pit that's dug into the foundation of the
 20· ·building.· And it vents the vapors outdoors above the
 21· ·roof line so that the vapors are not going inside.· And
 22· ·so our proposed plan reflects the cost for mitigating
 23· ·an estimated 100 properties within the Meeker Avenue
 24· ·study area with ongoing maintenance.· And then the plan
 25· ·also estimates that indoor air sampling and mitigation

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 16
 ·1· ·will just be conducted on an ongoing basis as needed
 ·2· ·for at least five years.
 ·3· · · · · · ·I just want to touch on how we determine the
 ·4· ·need for vapor intrusion.· So obviously, like, we
 ·5· ·conduct sampling, and we look at those results.· But
 ·6· ·then we also look at other pieces of information to
 ·7· ·help us make a conclusion or draw a conclusion.· And
 ·8· ·that could include, like, looking at the subsurface
 ·9· ·geological and hydro-geological conditions around a
 10· ·building or structure; the -- the characteristics of
 11· ·each property, like what -- what are the conditions of
 12· ·the foundation of the building itself, is it intact, is
 13· ·it not; and proximity to other impacted structures.· So
 14· ·-- so looking at these lines of evidence and -- and the
 15· ·sampling results, we then may determine that no further
 16· ·action is needed, or we might need to do some
 17· ·additional sampling to get confirmation.
 18· · · · · · ·Or we would determine that a sub-slab
 19· ·depressurization system is needed to mitigate the
 20· ·indoor air impacts that we find.· So we are accepting
 21· ·public comments on this plan until June 25th, 2024, and
 22· ·you can either mail me comments or e-mail them to me.
 23· ·I'm going to leave this up here for a minute so you
 24· ·guys can, you know, take note of my e-mail address and
 25· ·my mailing address.· And then any questions that are

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 17
 ·1· ·asked today, any comments today, those will also be
 ·2· ·recorded and answered formally as well.· At the end of
 ·3· ·the public comment period, we -- we make sure that we
 ·4· ·respond to each question and -- which you'll be able to
 ·5· ·view too.· And then our proposed plan is available on
 ·6· ·our website.
 ·7· · · · · · ·And let me know once you guys are good.           I
 ·8· ·see a couple more cameras.· Okay.· I'm going to go to
 ·9· ·the next slide.· If anyone wants me to stay on this
 10· ·slide, just let me know.· So yeah.· So like I said,
 11· ·once the comment period ends, we'll review and respond
 12· ·to the public comments.· What happened?· Oh, okay.· And
 13· ·then we will prepare a record of decision, which is the
 14· ·final decision document that will formalize our
 15· ·preferred cleanup method based on all the input that we
 16· ·receive.· And the -- the record of decision will
 17· ·include responses to comments received through June
 18· ·25th.· Okay.· And now we're ready for questions.
 19· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· I came up here too early.· Okay.
 20· ·All right.· So now, we're at the question-and-answer
 21· ·portion of the evening.· So please, if anyone has
 22· ·questions or would just like to give a formal comment,
 23· ·please let me know.· I'll come over with the
 24· ·microphone.· Like I said at the beginning of the
 25· ·meeting, the meeting is recorded, so any questions or

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 18
 ·1· ·comments will be transcribed and will be part of the
 ·2· ·formal record.· And then we do ask to -- if -- when you
 ·3· ·speak, to please give your name or at least your
 ·4· ·affiliation with the site, whether a resident, a
 ·5· ·business owner, community member, et cetera.· So all
 ·6· ·right.· Any questions or thoughts?
 ·7· · · · · · ·Yes.
 ·8· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Yeah.· Could you just
 ·9· ·identify what the source is of the pollution?
 10· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· Sorry.· Can I ask you to repeat
 11· ·that into the microphone?
 12· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Can you just answer
 13· ·it?
 14· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· No?
 15· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Do you know the source
 16· ·of the pollution?
 17· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· Do we know the source of the
 18· ·pollution?
 19· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Yes.· The State has located at
 20· ·least six different source areas that have been
 21· ·identified.· There's also at least 10 to 20 additional
 22· ·probable sources that EPA will have to investigate.
 23· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Can you say anything
 24· ·about them?
 25· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Do we have that as a -- a spare

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 19
 ·1· ·slide, the -- the location of those?
 ·2· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Dry cleaning, the
 ·3· ·commercial --
 ·4· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· One was dry cleaning.· One was
 ·5· ·a drum reconditioner.· There's, you know, two active
 ·6· ·facilities that are just under the BQE.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Yeah.· I can --
 ·8· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· You have that one?
 ·9· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· I forgot [inaudible 00:23:03].
 10· ·No, I don't have it [inaudible 00:23:04].· Sorry.
 11· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· That's all right.
 12· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Yeah.· I -- and -- and I just
 13· ·want to stress that we're -- we're still the -- like
 14· ·Rupika mentioned, we're -- we're addressing the site
 15· ·sort of in two parallel tracks.· So the investigation
 16· ·of source areas is ongoing, and so we may find
 17· ·additional source areas.· Some of the source areas
 18· ·we're looking at now may end up not being source areas,
 19· ·so it's -- it's -- it's a question we're still working
 20· ·on.· And sorry.
 21· · · · · · ·While I have the mic, can I make -- add one
 22· ·thing to Rupika's presentation?· When we're making
 23· ·determinations on whether mitigation is needed at a
 24· ·property or what next steps are needed, there's one
 25· ·more thing that we take into account.· And that is

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 20
 ·1· ·consultation with the State Department of Environmental
 ·2· ·Conservation and Department of Health.· So I just
 ·3· ·wanted to add that.
 ·4· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· Any other questions?· Yes.
 ·5· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· Hello.· My name is Natalie
 ·6· ·Vichnevsky.· I'm a resident in the area and also work
 ·7· ·for a local nonprofit called Evergreen.· That's an
 ·8· ·industrial economic development organization that works
 ·9· ·with the industrial manufacturing community in the
 10· ·area.
 11· · · · · · ·I was curious if you-all could explain a
 12· ·little bit more about the remedial action levels and if
 13· ·-- the reason that they're different between
 14· ·residential and commercial, if that's just the math
 15· ·because of the different hours that people tend to
 16· ·spend in one place or the other, and if it effectually
 17· ·is the same level of protection.
 18· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· That's right.· It has to do
 19· ·with the exposure time.· So exposure time at home would
 20· ·be different than exposure time in a -- a commercial
 21· ·building when you would expect to probably work eight
 22· ·hours a day as opposed to home when you could be home
 23· ·for 24 hours a day.· Some of the other things that, you
 24· ·know, fall into that, we wouldn't expect there to be a
 25· ·baby at a commercial facility.· Although, you know,

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 21
 ·1· ·residential numbers typically include elderly that --
 ·2· ·you -- you know, the most -- what's the word I'm
 ·3· ·looking for, most sensitive populations.
 ·4· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· So then actually, there's
 ·5· ·more TCE or PCE or what -- the intrusion kind of
 ·6· ·allowed in a space that's commercial because people
 ·7· ·might spend less time there?
 ·8· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· That's correct.
 ·9· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· Okay.· Okay.· And I have one
 10· ·-- well, I'll just ask one more question.· I have more
 11· ·questions.· But the 100 -- the -- the 100 buildings,
 12· ·like the -- why -- why is 100 the number that is being
 13· ·targeted?
 14· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Yeah.· That -- that's fine.· I can
 15· ·start.
 16· · · · · · ·That's just based on how many properties
 17· ·we've gotten access to so far.· So it's just an
 18· ·estimate.· We're not tied to it, right, by any means.
 19· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Yeah.· I was just going to -- so
 20· ·-- so we need to -- when we put out a proposed plan, we
 21· ·need to have some cost estimate associated with it.· So
 22· ·we estimated the 100 based on sort of best professional
 23· ·judgment.· If it's significantly more, it doesn't mean
 24· ·that we won't address those properties.· There is --
 25· ·within -- within a Superfund decision, the -- the costs

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 22
 ·1· ·can end up being greater than 50 percent or less than
 ·2· ·30 percent than is estimated in the record of decision.
 ·3· ·But even if it's outside that range, we can then modify
 ·4· ·the decision.· So it's -- it's not -- it doesn't limit
 ·5· ·us.
 ·6· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· Okay.· Good.· Yeah.· Because
 ·7· ·I know the -- with the DEC, right, they did like 160
 ·8· ·tests and did 25.· I didn't know if it was, like, a
 ·9· ·similar proportion or something, but --
 10· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· No.
 11· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· It doesn't have anything to
 12· ·do with --
 13· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· We -- we -- we sort of looked at
 14· ·proportion, but it -- yeah.
 15· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· Okay.· Thank you.
 16· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· Thanks.· All right.
 17· · · · · · ·MR. CHESLER:· Hi.· My name is Steve Chesler.
 18· ·I'm chair of the Environmental Protection Committee at
 19· ·Brooklyn Community Board 1.· My question about the
 20· ·qualification for -- you know, the threshold
 21· ·qualification to have remedy implemented, so, you know,
 22· ·property tests -- you know, it's a, you know, negative
 23· ·result.· But in terms of what -- what proximity means
 24· ·in terms of -- there's, you know, property nearby that
 25· ·tests positive or offsite, say, in the street or in the

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 23
 ·1· ·sidewalk.
 ·2· · · · · · ·And if there are details, you know, in the
 ·3· ·documentation that can be reviewed to take a deeper
 ·4· ·dive -- but I'm wondering if you could just add some
 ·5· ·more to that now.
 ·6· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· There's nothing, as far as I
 ·7· ·recall, in the document about a proximity from -- from
 ·8· ·one home to another.· Every home was looked at on an
 ·9· ·individual basis from one to the other, so there's not
 10· ·a -- a proximity distance in there.· Well, if we had an
 11· ·issue here three homes over, you know, we have to do
 12· ·something.· There's nothing in there about that.
 13· ·Everything is looked at on an individual basis.
 14· · · · · · ·MR. CHESLER:· And -- but what about, say,
 15· ·testing done offsite in the street or in the sidewalk
 16· ·and -- example, go -- backing up, there's a negative
 17· ·result in the property, but in the street or in the
 18· ·sidewalk, you know, the -- in the -- testing the wells,
 19· ·there is a, you know, positive result.
 20· · · · · · ·So what is, you know, the threshold
 21· ·determined for that?
 22· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· I can do it -- yeah.
 23· · · · · · ·If we were to find something in the
 24· ·groundwater or -- you know, the State has at least a
 25· ·few hundred soil gas wells that are in sidewalks like

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 24
 ·1· ·you're mentioning or whatnot.· And that might be a good
 ·2· ·reason for us to try to get access to some of those
 ·3· ·properties around in that vicinity.· But you know, is
 ·4· ·there a number in there for that?· No.· Not
 ·5· ·necessarily.· Like, a distance or something like that?
 ·6· ·No.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MR. CHESLER:· And just quickly, just in terms
 ·8· ·of just the sampling area, in terms of, you know,
 ·9· ·approximately how many residential properties are
 10· ·within the -- the border right now?
 11· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Nine hundred.
 12· · · · · · ·MR. CHESLER:· Okay.
 13· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Yeah.· It doesn't mean
 14· ·residential.· It's about 900 properties.· Yeah.
 15· · · · · · ·BENNETT:· Thanks.
 16· · · · · · ·Hello.· I'm Bennett (phonetic).· I'm a
 17· ·resident a couple blocks away.· My question is about if
 18· ·similar sites exist in the city or elsewhere and if
 19· ·there's similar data that you've seen and if the
 20· ·depressurization system has been deployed elsewhere and
 21· ·how it's -- what the results have been.
 22· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Sure.· The -- the sub-slab
 23· ·depressurization system, it's a proven technology,
 24· ·number one.· Number two, it's the same technology that
 25· ·the State used when they did sampling before the EPA's

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 25
 ·1· ·arrival.· The State was involved from 2007.· It's still
 ·2· ·to today, and they've installed, I think the number is,
 ·3· ·26 mitigation systems.· It's the same technology that
 ·4· ·the State used.
 ·5· · · · · · ·BENNETT:· Are there other neighborhoods that
 ·6· ·have similar -- are there other -- other neighborhoods
 ·7· ·that have similar contaminants that have showed up with
 ·8· ·similar numbers?· I mean, I -- you know, I imagine
 ·9· ·there are similar businesses around here than there are
 10· ·in other parts of the city, so I'm -- I guess I'm
 11· ·curious why this neighborhood and if -- if similar data
 12· ·has been seen elsewhere.
 13· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· I -- I can't speak specifically
 14· ·to this neighborhood, but I mean, EPA has used this
 15· ·technology on other sites if that's what you're asking.
 16· · · · · · ·BENNETT:· I guess I'm asking on the sample
 17· ·data specifically.
 18· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Yeah.· So we're investigating this
 19· ·area based on what the State found during their
 20· ·investigations between like 2007 and 2022.· So we're
 21· ·building off that.· We're not investigating outside of
 22· ·this area right now because we have no, you know,
 23· ·reason to believe that we should.· So, like, I think
 24· ·you mean like other parts of Brooklyn or in Manhattan,
 25· ·right?· Yeah.· No.· We haven't done any sampling there.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 26
 ·1· · · · · · ·LAUREN:· Hi.· I'm Lauren.· I live and work in
 ·2· ·the area.· I don't know if this is the point in your
 ·3· ·timeline where you can share this information.
 ·4· · · · · · ·But based on the testing that you've done so
 ·5· ·far, does your testing area remain the same, or has it
 ·6· ·expanded or contracted based on what you've been
 ·7· ·finding so far?
 ·8· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· At this time, it remains the
 ·9· ·same.
 10· · · · · · ·LAUREN:· Okay.
 11· · · · · · ·MS. SPIROFF:· Hi.· I'm a resident, Deborah
 12· ·Spiroff.· My question is more about a -- there's
 13· ·several sites in this area, and there's some -- there
 14· ·appears to be some overlap.· Is there currently or will
 15· ·there be more of an oversight body that coordinates the
 16· ·various sites?· Because as more data comes in and you
 17· ·evaluate the boundaries, they -- they can often shift.
 18· ·And is there a coordinating body entity, one, and if
 19· ·so, who is that?
 20· · · · · · ·And there appears to be responsible parties
 21· ·that have been determined.· And they -- one of which
 22· ·is, I believe, to my knowledge, is New York State, and
 23· ·is that -- as well as other entities.· And that -- if
 24· ·that goes -- you have potentially a conflict of cost
 25· ·and the remediation costs and the people determining

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 27
 ·1· ·that.· Is that -- how is that being looked at, and is
 ·2· ·that being looked at?
 ·3· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· So --
 ·4· · · · · · ·MS. SPIROFF:· I know that's a long,
 ·5· ·convoluted, multiple layered --
 ·6· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· I -- I can try to address at
 ·7· ·least some of your questions.
 ·8· · · · · · ·MS. SPIROFF:· Okay.
 ·9· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· So -- so first off, I'm a
 10· ·supervisor of this site as well as Newtown Creek, so
 11· ·the two sites do share a border.· So we definitely look
 12· ·at the sites together and share information.· And --
 13· ·and in fact, some of the groundwater sampling we did
 14· ·recently, you know, we -- we sort of coordinated across
 15· ·the two sites.· And Rupika works on both sites as well,
 16· ·so there is that -- you know, that -- that shared
 17· ·knowledge.· And we also work in the same office as the
 18· ·project managers for the other sites that Rupika
 19· ·mentioned, like the Wolff-Alport and Gowanus.· So we
 20· ·coordinate with them as well.
 21· · · · · · ·In terms of responsible parties, we have not
 22· ·yet named any responsible parties for the Meeker Avenue
 23· ·Plume site.· That is a process that we're working on,
 24· ·and it's -- it takes a little while.· The State is not
 25· ·a responsible party for this site, and so -- so the

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 28
 ·1· ·State is considered our partner agency.· They -- they
 ·2· ·gave us the -- the site.· You know, they referred it to
 ·3· ·us after they had been investigating it for a number of
 ·4· ·years.· If a common PRP is found between, let's say,
 ·5· ·Meeker and Newtown Creek, then, you know, that's
 ·6· ·something we'll have to figure out.· But we're not
 ·7· ·there yet.
 ·8· · · · · · ·I don't know if -- Andrea, if there's
 ·9· ·anything you want to add.
 10· · · · · · ·She's the site attorney.
 11· · · · · · ·MS. LESHAK:· No.· Stephanie covered it.
 12· ·Under EPA guidance, our policy is enforcement first.
 13· ·So we do try to identify potentially responsible
 14· ·parties.· As Stephanie mentioned, that process is
 15· ·ongoing, so we don't have any real update to share at
 16· ·this time.
 17· · · · · · ·MS. SPIROFF:· Thank you.
 18· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· Hi.· My name is Willis Elkins.
 19· ·I work for the Newtown Creek Alliance.· So I have a
 20· ·question -- a couple questions.· First is about -- back
 21· ·to get to the -- the threshold levels and to the
 22· ·gentleman's question.· I understand if EPA hasn't done
 23· ·sampling at the site, but I believe DEC has done
 24· ·sampling at other similar sites around the city.· So
 25· ·the -- the question is about -- you just sort of gave

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 29
 ·1· ·us the numbers, and maybe it'd be helpful to go back to
 ·2· ·that slide, of what EPA has determined as an acceptable
 ·3· ·amount of TCE and PCE.· So I just feel like it would be
 ·4· ·helpful to understand how EPA arrived at these numbers,
 ·5· ·give some context of other sites.· Maybe DEC can chime
 ·6· ·in.
 ·7· · · · · · ·And then I would also add a comment that I do
 ·8· ·think, to Natalie's point, that the commercial actions
 ·9· ·-- I appreciate being very conservative with the
 10· ·residential areas and assuming people would spend 24
 11· ·hours.· I don't know anybody who spends 24 hours, seven
 12· ·days a week, inside their house, but it's good to be
 13· ·protective.· However, I know a lot more people that
 14· ·spend more than 40 hours in their workplace.· So that's
 15· ·a comment that I think that, you know, four to one
 16· ·ratio of the protectiveness is -- is unacceptable,
 17· ·especially given the vast amount of commercial
 18· ·industrial properties that are in the zone.· So that's
 19· ·a comment.
 20· · · · · · ·But the first question is about how we
 21· ·arrived at these numbers, and then I have a couple more
 22· ·questions.
 23· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Thank you, Willis.· Our -- our
 24· ·risk assessor unfortunately is not here tonight, but as
 25· ·we said, we're documenting all of that -- you know, all

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 30
 ·1· ·those questions.· So we can certainly have her reply to
 ·2· ·that in one of the comments when -- when they come out
 ·3· ·in the written.· That -- that's a -- there's a lot of -
 ·4· ·- you know, a lot of questions within questions you
 ·5· ·asked there about that.· So I think maybe best to let
 ·6· ·her answer that, which we could do in writing.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· Okay.· And I don't -- I don't
 ·8· ·know if --
 ·9· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Can I add one other thing?
 10· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Yeah.· Sure.
 11· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· And -- and I -- I just want to
 12· ·stress that -- that these numbers are one line of
 13· ·evidence, for lack of a better term.· We do look at
 14· ·each property sort of holistically -- not sort of.· We
 15· ·look at each property holistically and make a
 16· ·determination on a property by property basis.· So if -
 17· ·- you know, I -- I guess what I'm trying to say is
 18· ·these numbers aren't bright lines necessarily.
 19· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· Would -- right.· Would -- I
 20· ·mean, so I don't know -- to the gentleman's question
 21· ·about comparable data and numbers, would -- I don't
 22· ·know if DEC is willing to share anything about other
 23· ·sites and sort of thresholds for other DEC-led
 24· ·cleanups, et cetera.
 25· · · · · · ·MS. DUDEK:· I -- I can speak in general --

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 31
 ·1· ·generalities.· I'm Heide Dudek.· I'm the section chief
 ·2· ·for the Meeker Avenue Plume.· I'm also the section
 ·3· ·chief for the Newtown Creek, when you asked about
 ·4· ·coordination.· So the State and EPA are in constant
 ·5· ·communication with both of the sites in the surrounding
 ·6· ·area.· DEC actually relies on our sister agency, who's
 ·7· ·represented here today by our -- our project manager
 ·8· ·for the Meeker Avenue Plume.
 ·9· · · · · · ·But DOH has their own soil vapor matrix, and
 10· ·they are the ones that will make the determination on a
 11· ·DEC site.· Yes.· There are many places within New York
 12· ·City and New York State that do have soil vapor plumes,
 13· ·and they have been mitigated with this radon-type
 14· ·system.· It's well documented, and it's a standard
 15· ·remedial action.· So I can't answer anything else like
 16· ·that if --
 17· · · · · · ·Shaun?
 18· · · · · · ·MR. SURANI:· Yeah.· There are some -- some
 19· ·difference -- slight differences in numbers criteria
 20· ·that -- that the State has used in the past and -- and
 21· ·I have used to, you know, recommend actions to mitigate
 22· ·properties.· As far as the indoor air, they're pretty
 23· ·close for the TCE and the PCE to what New York State
 24· ·was.· You know, our -- we don't necessarily draw that
 25· ·distinction between commercial and residential, but you

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 32
 ·1· ·know, like I said, we each have our own -- two
 ·2· ·different agencies, we all have our, you know,
 ·3· ·criteria.· And as Stephanie had mentioned before, they
 ·4· ·-- you know, EPA will -- will work with us, you know,
 ·5· ·to make those determinations.
 ·6· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· Yeah.· So I mean, just if I'm
 ·7· ·hearing that correctly, the State has numbers that are
 ·8· ·different than these and that there's not a major
 ·9· ·distinction between commercial and residential?· So
 10· ·maybe it'd be very helpful to share, like, more details
 11· ·about that.
 12· · · · · · ·MR. SURANI:· Yeah.· I -- our numbers -- in --
 13· ·in the past -- the decisions that we've done in the
 14· ·past, we have our own, like, decision matrices, and we
 15· ·have used those in the past to make recommendations
 16· ·based on the numbers, you know.· And having made that
 17· ·distinction between commercial or residential, for
 18· ·instance, you know, we've recommended to mitigate a
 19· ·property, you know, a commercial space where TCE in the
 20· ·indoor air was above two, you know, in that range, not
 21· ·above eight.· So, you know, but each -- each individual
 22· ·property is different, and we -- we look into -- to all
 23· ·of that to make our recommendations and including how
 24· ·that space is used, how often folks are there.· So
 25· ·there is a lot that goes into it other than -- than

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 33
 ·1· ·just these numbers.
 ·2· · · · · · ·MS. DUDEK:· And that --
 ·3· · · · · · ·MR. SURANI:· And we -- we are committed to
 ·4· ·working, you know, as closely as we can with -- with
 ·5· ·the EPA to -- to -- to -- to make sure that our --
 ·6· ·their decisions, you know, would line up with ours.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. DUDEK:· And -- and I would fully concur
 ·8· ·with that, that the -- and that's what I mean by each
 ·9· ·property will be evaluated individually.· So if there
 10· ·were a commercial space, let's say, where people are
 11· ·spending significant amounts of time and there were,
 12· ·you know, the -- and -- and the numbers fell below
 13· ·these, but the -- you know, we felt it was warranted,
 14· ·we -- we -- we could install a mitigation system.· And
 15· ·the decision document will be written up in such a way
 16· ·to give us that flexibility.
 17· · · · · · ·Yeah.· Okay.
 18· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Yeah.· If -- if it's
 19· ·okay, I wanted to do a different topic, which is the --
 20· ·the number of buildings and how many people you have
 21· ·brought into this process.· You may have debriefed on
 22· ·that at the beginning of your speech, so I don't --
 23· ·please don't repeat it if you did.· But you said
 24· ·there's 900 properties of concern, commercial and
 25· ·residential.· And I think you also said that you've

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 34
 ·1· ·determined that Cooper Park Houses is not in need of
 ·2· ·remediation.
 ·3· · · · · · ·So could you tell us more about how many
 ·4· ·properties you got into, how many owners or resident
 ·5· ·occupants on the first floor, to your knowledge, are
 ·6· ·aware of this problem?· I just went one day out on the
 ·7· ·street with the organizing outreach team, and it was
 ·8· ·extremely difficult to get into properties with
 ·9· ·absentee landlords.· And it's -- a lot of the buildings
 10· ·are occupied by hardworking people who aren't home at
 11· ·normal hours.
 12· · · · · · ·So I -- I just wondered, do you -- how -- how
 13· ·well do you feel you've penetrated the population that
 14· ·could be impacted?· Tell us about that if you -- it
 15· ·seems like maybe you feel good about it.· Tell us.
 16· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Sure.· Do you have the -- not
 17· ·that number necessarily.· The -- the map of the -- the
 18· ·outline?
 19· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Oh, I --
 20· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· That's not the first slide or -
 21· ·-
 22· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Oh, yeah.
 23· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· That one.· Right.· So it -- my
 24· ·estimate inside that blue area was that there's about
 25· ·900 properties.· And -- and I did that for another

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 35
 ·1· ·reason.· We're trying to take a look at different
 ·2· ·sections of that outlined area just to see -- or you
 ·3· ·know, we've seen higher concentrations in certain areas
 ·4· ·than others.· The State, before EPA's involvement,
 ·5· ·sampled north of about 160.· EPA, since our
 ·6· ·involvement, which the site was listed in March of
 ·7· ·2022, we sampled 23 properties through last December.
 ·8· ·And -- and that data has been shared with those
 ·9· ·property owners.· We sampled another 18 just this
 10· ·February and March.
 11· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Are those different?
 12· ·That's 38 different properties from the original 160?
 13· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· That's right.· That's right.
 14· ·One of those 18 properties we had sampled a prior time,
 15· ·so it was only 17 new properties.· We -- we asked them
 16· ·to come back a second time and -- and sample it at a
 17· ·different winter heating season.· So that -- that's the
 18· ·numbers that we have.· As far as outreach, that has
 19· ·been a struggle, and that has been something that we
 20· ·have worked extremely hard on, both through mailings,
 21· ·through door to door, just trying to get information
 22· ·out through word of mouth, through our social media.
 23· · · · · · ·That -- that has been a -- a tremendous
 24· ·challenge.· And I know you said that, you know, it's
 25· ·tough to get people during the day when they're at

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 36
 ·1· ·work.· We had, you know, similar circumstances when we
 ·2· ·went around at night after work.· People not wanting us
 ·3· ·to bother them at -- at dinner time.· Or you know,
 ·4· ·Rupika and I went around one night.· And they're like,
 ·5· ·it's dark; what are you knocking on my door for?· So it
 ·6· ·has definitely been one of our main priorities, but I
 ·7· ·mean, it has been a challenge.· Did you have another
 ·8· ·question in there?· I know you --
 ·9· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Well, I just -- how do
 10· ·you feel -- I'm sorry.· How do you -- how do you feel?
 11· ·So it's less than 200 properties out of 900, and -- and
 12· ·I kind of connect to that Cooper Park Houses.· How many
 13· ·ground floor units did you get into?
 14· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Oh, okay.
 15· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· How many residents did
 16· ·you converse with?· You know, just -- I -- I guess,
 17· ·kind of the history of our community, I'd like to be
 18· ·sold a little more --
 19· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Sure.
 20· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· -- that the people
 21· ·have had a chance to ask for remediation if they need
 22· ·it.
 23· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· There's one other point, I
 24· ·think.
 25· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Okay.· Sure.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 37
 ·1· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Okay.· I just -- I -- I'll let
 ·2· ·John answer that, but one other point that maybe we
 ·3· ·should make is that our outreach and access efforts are
 ·4· ·ongoing.· So by making -- by making this decision, we
 ·5· ·have the ability -- it will give us the ability to
 ·6· ·mitigate any problems we find, but we plan to keep
 ·7· ·going for years to come, to -- to try to access as many
 ·8· ·of those properties as we can.· I don't know if that
 ·9· ·gets to your concern.
 10· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· That's good to hear.
 11· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· As far as Cooper Park Houses,
 12· ·we got inside of all 11 buildings when we did the
 13· ·sampling last year.· There are no residences on the
 14· ·ground floor in any of those buildings.· However, we
 15· ·were able to sample in, you know, the -- the manager's
 16· ·office, the lunch area.· You name it, we were inside of
 17· ·every single building.· Every building, it -- it's kind
 18· ·of unique.· Every building is a little bit different.
 19· ·It's a different size, and it has got a different
 20· ·purpose.
 21· · · · · · ·It's kind of like their own city, if you
 22· ·will.· So we got inside of all 11, and we were able to
 23· ·get not only sub-slab soil gas, but indoor air, outdoor
 24· ·air.· And in many cases, the center -- you can't really
 25· ·see it here, but the center of the buildings actually

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 38
 ·1· ·have vented areas.· It's just the way the building was
 ·2· ·constructed.· We got in there as well.· So that was
 ·3· ·very successful.· And none of those needed mitigation.
 ·4· · · · · · ·MR. SURANI:· I just wanted to -- to also
 ·5· ·clarify that, just to echo what they -- the EPA has
 ·6· ·noted, you know, in the State's investigations to date,
 ·7· ·the -- that has also been our biggest hurdle, is -- is
 ·8· ·obtaining access to buildings.· I think prior to the
 ·9· ·State or the site going to -- to -- to the EPA, I think
 10· ·it was what, maybe the 2021 to 2022 heating season, you
 11· ·know, DEC, the State sent out letters to, I think,
 12· ·every property within the area of interest.· You know,
 13· ·there were -- there -- there's difficulties in -- in --
 14· ·in outreach, but letters were mailed to, you know,
 15· ·close to 1,000 properties.· And, you know, the response
 16· ·rate was low.· So that -- that's something --
 17· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Sixty.
 18· · · · · · ·MR. SURANI:· What?
 19· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Sixty.
 20· · · · · · ·MR. SURANI:· About 60.· So, you know, roughly
 21· ·a six percent response rate.· So that is something the
 22· ·State has -- has struggled with to date and does seem
 23· ·to be kind of the biggest hurdle for -- for the site.
 24· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· May I ask a follow-up
 25· ·question?· This may be legalese, but if a landlord --

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 39
 ·1· ·if the landlord received a letter like that and it
 ·2· ·comes to light some time later that they did not avail
 ·3· ·themselves of this investigation and the potential
 ·4· ·remediation, can the tenants sue in the future?· Like,
 ·5· ·if their kids grow up and they're sick, something like
 ·6· ·that?
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. LESHAK:· Thank you for your question.· So
 ·8· ·that question is outside the purview of what the EPA
 ·9· ·can answer because we cannot provide legal advice, so
 10· ·you could feel free to contact an attorney.· I will
 11· ·clarify that EPA has authority under the Superfund Law
 12· ·to access properties for sampling and response actions.
 13· ·So while we are seeking consent from owners and tenants
 14· ·to sample, our policy advises us that if access is not
 15· ·forthcoming, we are able to require access through
 16· ·administrative or judicial means.· But of course, we
 17· ·want to cooperate with the community, and that's why
 18· ·we've made our outreach efforts thus far to try to
 19· ·cooperate and obtain access consensually.
 20· · · · · · ·MS. BACH:· Hi, there, I'm Paloma Bach
 21· ·(phonetic).· I'm a community member, and I also work in
 22· ·the community.· One thing that was of note when we went
 23· ·back a couple slides ago that we tested -- you-all
 24· ·tested about 20 buildings in 2022 to 2023 and 20
 25· ·buildings the year after that.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 40
 ·1· · · · · · ·But my concern mainly, especially with the
 ·2· ·active sites that were -- are still being investigated
 ·3· ·is what's the likelihood of going back to some of these
 ·4· ·buildings and retesting based off the fact that we're
 ·5· ·not really sure how widespread the contamination is and
 ·6· ·-- and how -- how many sites are currently active?
 ·7· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· That's a good question.· EPA
 ·8· ·hasn't seen the need to go back to any of the homes
 ·9· ·that were previously sampled by the State as yet.· You
 10· ·know, if we have data that indicates that that's the
 11· ·case, then of course we'll go and -- and try to get
 12· ·access to those properties and -- and to retest them.
 13· ·But we haven't seen the need to do that yet.· There are
 14· ·some properties, based on our data, that we -- you
 15· ·know, we have asked to go back to and sample a second
 16· ·time.· The State had to do similar things.· So in those
 17· ·cases, then yes.· Then we -- we go back another time to
 18· ·make sure.· You know, if -- if we saw some data -- I'll
 19· ·give you a perfectly good example.
 20· · · · · · ·Last year, we had tested a -- a building, and
 21· ·there was nothing in the first floor space.· There was
 22· ·two units.· There was, you know, nothing in the
 23· ·basement, but we did find it in the sub-slab soil gas.
 24· ·So we said, we want to go back out and test again to
 25· ·see if there's any changes.· Make sure, even though no

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 41
 ·1· ·one is living in the basement, it's just a storage
 ·2· ·area, make sure that there's nothing coming in there.
 ·3· ·There's people living in the first floor spaces; make
 ·4· ·sure there's -- you know, they're not getting any type
 ·5· ·of exposure.· And that was -- that was the one house we
 ·6· ·did again, I -- I -- I mentioned it a few minutes
 ·7· ·earlier, just this past February and March, but we
 ·8· ·don't have the data back yet.
 ·9· · · · · · ·MS. BACH:· Okay.· So just to confirm, even if
 10· ·there -- the first time around testing there was
 11· ·nothing found, even if buildings may be at risk, you
 12· ·are not required to go in and test again?
 13· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· I -- I wouldn't use the word
 14· ·required.· I mean, if -- if I had a homeowner call me
 15· ·and said, hey, you know -- I'll give you a perfect,
 16· ·good example.· We had the house tested 10 years ago,
 17· ·and since that time, A, B, and C happened.· Well, there
 18· ·might be a reason for us to go back.· You know, maybe
 19· ·they, you know, had a big crack form in the floor.
 20· ·Maybe they did a big remodel that might have changed
 21· ·some of the structure of the building.· There's plenty
 22· ·of reasons to go back.· So, you know, we take phone
 23· ·calls from -- from everyone and try to go through that
 24· ·with them.· It's not just no.· We did -- you know, no.
 25· ·Sorry.· You've already been sampled.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 42
 ·1· · · · · · ·MS. BACH:· Okay.· Thank you.
 ·2· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Sure.
 ·3· · · · · · ·MS. GOODMAN:· Hi.· I'm Lael Goodman.· I'm
 ·4· ·with North Brooklyn Neighbors and also part of the
 ·5· ·Meeker CAG.· I guess you were talking about the
 ·6· ·differences in the thresholds for residential and
 ·7· ·commercial.· And just to go back to that, I mean, I
 ·8· ·know we talked about the number of hours, but there was
 ·9· ·also something said about, like, the vulnerability of
 10· ·the populations.· You were saying that for residential,
 11· ·you considered, you know, the most -- most vulnerable
 12· ·people.
 13· · · · · · ·And I was just wondering if in the commercial
 14· ·properties, you are also using the most vulnerable
 15· ·populations of just, you know -- there are, like,
 16· ·pregnant women and people who are elderly who do work
 17· ·in those spaces, so I guess that's a comment and a
 18· ·question.
 19· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· No.· That -- that's a real --
 20· ·that's a really good question, and I -- I have a good
 21· ·example.· We -- we tested a home last December, and I,
 22· ·you know -- I won't go into details about where it was.
 23· ·But the gentleman uses it as his business on -- on the
 24· ·first floor, but he lives on the second floor.· So when
 25· ·we sampled that property, you know, we didn't use

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 43
 ·1· ·commercial.· We didn't use the commercial numbers
 ·2· ·because he could be down there all the time, on the
 ·3· ·weekends, at night.· Plus, he lives upstairs.· It's
 ·4· ·not, you know, like your traditional, you know,
 ·5· ·environment.· So in that particular instance, we
 ·6· ·compared, you know, his numbers to residential numbers.
 ·7· ·So, you know, when we evaluate properties, of course
 ·8· ·those things are taken into consideration.
 ·9· · · · · · ·MS. GOODMAN:· I guess -- I guess I would just
 10· ·argue that sometimes the current workers aren't
 11· ·necessarily the future workers or people may become
 12· ·pregnant or things like that.· So that's one comment.
 13· ·My other question was about the venting.· I know you
 14· ·said it goes to the roof line of the property.
 15· · · · · · ·I know there's very varied roof lines here
 16· ·and would want to make sure that -- I don't know, is
 17· ·there a radius of you do it as high as the neighboring
 18· ·house within three houses?· Or how do you make sure
 19· ·that that venting doesn't affect nearby properties?
 20· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Yes.· I mean, we would want to
 21· ·get it above the highest roof line.· If -- if your
 22· ·neighboring property was higher, we wouldn't want there
 23· ·to be any reintroduction into him because he happened
 24· ·to have a window there.· Of course.
 25· · · · · · ·MS. GOODMAN:· So it would go as high as the

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 44
 ·1· ·neighboring property or if there was one, like, you
 ·2· ·know, two properties away -- or I guess how do you kind
 ·3· ·of -- what the criteria is there?
 ·4· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· I'll -- I'll double check that.
 ·5· ·I'll double check that, and we can get that information
 ·6· ·to you if there's a distance.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. GOODMAN:· Okay.· Thanks.
 ·8· · · · · · ·KYLE:· Hi.· My name is Kyle.· I'm a resident
 ·9· ·in the area.· I had a question on access to information
 10· ·and the process around that in terms of whether
 11· ·sampling is being completed in your building from a
 12· ·renter's perspective and whether there's a process to
 13· ·ask for access to that information or confirmation,
 14· ·whether sampling has been completed or not, or if you
 15· ·could talk about the process.
 16· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Sure.· Typically, what we'll
 17· ·do, you know, aside from our typical outreach, we get
 18· ·phone calls from property owners or tenants fairly
 19· ·regularly.· And, you know, what we need to do is we
 20· ·need to get permission from the property owner.· The
 21· ·way EPA has handled their sampling is that we get
 22· ·permission from the -- from the property owner.· Of
 23· ·course, the property owner would get that data.· If we
 24· ·get into the tenant space, let's say the tenant has the
 25· ·first floor space or the basement space and they allow

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 45
 ·1· ·us access to come in and -- and to sample their --
 ·2· ·their indoor air, then that data would get shared with
 ·3· ·that tenant as well because they gave us access to
 ·4· ·their space.
 ·5· · · · · · ·KYLE:· Understood.· I guess in terms of
 ·6· ·whether sampling has been completed or not, outside of
 ·7· ·whether they actually require access to your specific
 ·8· ·unit, is there a process for requesting that
 ·9· ·information, or is it limited to, you know, your
 10· ·relationship or the contract with your actual property
 11· ·owner?
 12· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Yes.· We haven't shared that
 13· ·information, you know, with anyone or -- the State has
 14· ·been the same way.· We've been trying to come up with a
 15· ·way to get people a -- a better sense on, you know,
 16· ·generally speaking, where homes have been tested, you
 17· ·know, what we call a -- a cluster map.· It's something
 18· ·we'll probably be sharing with everyone at our next CAG
 19· ·meeting in May, which is May 30th.· But we've been
 20· ·trying to get an -- you know, give people an idea
 21· ·about, you know, if I live in this part of the
 22· ·community, has there been a lot of testing in the -- in
 23· ·my part of the community?· Has there been a lot of
 24· ·systems installed in my part of the community?
 25· · · · · · ·It won't -- it's not specific enough.· It's

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 46
 ·1· ·not street level, but, you know, give you an idea that
 ·2· ·if you live on -- and I'm just going to make up a name,
 ·3· ·on Sutton, right, that, you know, within a certain
 ·4· ·block of area, has there been a lot of testing?· And if
 ·5· ·-- you know, if there has been, you know, how many
 ·6· ·people have -- have needed systems?· But it's not going
 ·7· ·to get specific to if you wanted to know what your
 ·8· ·neighbor was or something like that because that's --
 ·9· ·that falls under the, you know -- the -- the privacy of
 10· ·that person.· We're trying to balance not only the
 11· ·privacy of the people that have been sampled, but the
 12· ·communities, you know, want to know, and EPA's need to
 13· ·-- to share -- their responsibility, I should say, to
 14· ·share that data.
 15· · · · · · ·KYLE:· Thank you.
 16· · · · · · ·MR. SURANI:· To clarify a little bit on
 17· ·what's done in New York State, in New York State -- and
 18· ·we've worked -- we've dealt with this in the past.· New
 19· ·York State, what's -- has what it's called a tenant
 20· ·notification law.· So for vapor intrusion results, if a
 21· ·-- if a result -- if an indoor air result is above New
 22· ·York State's air guideline values, which are 2
 23· ·micrograms per cubic meter for TCE and 30 micrograms
 24· ·per cubic meter for PCE -- if the results -- indoor air
 25· ·results are above those numbers, in the past, when --

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 47
 ·1· ·when we would send results letters out, we would
 ·2· ·include that information as well.
 ·3· · · · · · ·And if -- if -- if the -- the indoor air
 ·4· ·numbers are above those, they would be required by law
 ·5· ·to -- to share that with tenants.· If they're below
 ·6· ·that, they are not required to -- by law to -- to -- to
 ·7· ·-- to share that.· But that would be, you know,
 ·8· ·something that would have to be worked out between the
 ·9· ·tenant and the landlord, you know.· You could always
 10· ·request it, but they're not necessarily required to.
 11· ·But in letters that we have sent out in the past, we
 12· ·always do encourage owners to share their results with
 13· ·all occupants and all tenants.
 14· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Do you publish --
 15· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· Do we publish --
 16· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· The -- the letters
 17· ·with --
 18· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· -- the letters --
 19· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· -- (crosstalk)
 20· ·property where the numbers can come in at [inaudible
 21· ·00:58:41]?
 22· · · · · · ·MS. DUDEK:· No.· We have the same privacy
 23· ·policy.· We provide the -- the data to the owner of the
 24· ·property.· And under New York State law, that the
 25· ·landlord is required to -- if there is a mitigation

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 48
 ·1· ·needed, to notify the tenants.· They're not -- he's not
 ·2· ·or they're not required to do it if there's no
 ·3· ·mitigation needed, but those are private.· We don't
 ·4· ·share people's private data.
 ·5· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· So if the landlord
 ·6· ·doesn't tell the tenant, the tenant has no way of
 ·7· ·knowing?
 ·8· · · · · · ·MS. DUDEK:· If it -- if the building needs
 ·9· ·mitigation, they're required by law to tell the
 10· ·tenants.· If it does not, they aren't.· They would --
 11· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· If they don't?
 12· · · · · · ·MS. DUDEK:· If they don't, then you -- the
 13· ·best thing to do is to -- if you have a question, is to
 14· ·reach out to EPA.· If they -- if it's your building,
 15· ·they can let you, you know -- they can discuss with
 16· ·you, and they can work with your landlord to try to get
 17· ·them -- if they're not sharing the data that they
 18· ·should.· And it's the same thing if DEC has done it.
 19· ·But again, we all are -- are, you know, bound by
 20· ·privacy laws in what we can and can't do.
 21· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· I know that, John, you
 22· ·said before to Willis's question with kind of figuring
 23· ·out the sort of calculus behind getting the actual
 24· ·numbers that you would share that in writing.
 25· · · · · · ·But could you-all talk just briefly a little

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 49
 ·1· ·bit more about the risk characterization in terms of,
 ·2· ·like, just explaining to folks, like, what, you know --
 ·3· ·what we're even talking about in terms of what the
 ·4· ·danger is, like, the, you know, one in 10,000, you know
 ·5· ·-- just understanding broadly what the health risks
 ·6· ·are.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Yeah.· So I can speak to some of
 ·8· ·the cancer and non-cancer health effects of both TCE
 ·9· ·and PCE.· So cancer effects from the exposure to TCE
 10· ·and PCE can include liver and kidney tumors.· And then
 11· ·non-cancer effects for TCE include developmental and
 12· ·immune system effects.· And non-cancer effects for PCE
 13· ·exposure include nervous system and ocular effects.· As
 14· ·far as explaining, I think, like -- I think you're
 15· ·talking about, like, the hazard index and the way risk
 16· ·is actually calculated.· It would be best if we let our
 17· ·risk assessor do that.· Yeah.
 18· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· -- (crosstalk) in the
 19· ·same bucket.
 20· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Yeah.· Yeah.
 21· · · · · · ·MS. GOODMAN:· -- comment about that.· Just a
 22· ·comment about that.· Sometimes those documents can be,
 23· ·like, really hard to understand.· So I guess I'm just
 24· ·hoping that when that does -- is sent around, that it
 25· ·is in easy-to-understand terms.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 50
 ·1· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Yeah.· So we'll include a response
 ·2· ·to, you know, your question and Willis's question in
 ·3· ·our responsiveness summary which you will all be able
 ·4· ·to view, and we'll make sure that it's, you know,
 ·5· ·explained in a way that's easily understandable.
 ·6· ·Because I -- I understand.· It can be confusing.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. DUDEK:· John has a good one with, like,
 ·8· ·the marbles in a pool [inaudible 01:01:43].· Stuff like
 ·9· ·that would help.
 10· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Okay.
 11· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· Hi.· Willis again.· So the -- I
 12· ·guess I'm having a hard time sort of understanding what
 13· ·-- what is actually being proposed because it sounds
 14· ·like you're already, like, doing all this stuff.· And
 15· ·so, you know, if there's a record decision that you
 16· ·want people to comment on, what is actually happening
 17· ·here --
 18· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Yeah.
 19· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· -- that -- then that's different
 20· ·from being happening aside from like -- honestly, the
 21· ·only thing -- I mean, it's great that it sounds like
 22· ·you're working on identifying more responsible parties,
 23· ·doing more testing, expanding the potential range.· But
 24· ·honestly, it's like the State has already -- was
 25· ·already doing installing vapor mitigation systems.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 51
 ·1· ·That's what you're doing.· The thresholds seem less
 ·2· ·protective than the State's.
 ·3· · · · · · ·Is there actually steps towards any real
 ·4· ·remediation of the contamination as opposed to just
 ·5· ·getting it out of people's houses, the vapors?
 ·6· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· So yeah.· You -- you picked up
 ·7· ·on exactly what's -- what's happening here.· So -- so
 ·8· ·as I mentioned before, there are the two parallel
 ·9· ·tracks going on with this site.· The way Superfund is
 10· ·set up, we cannot take a remedial action, including a
 11· ·mitigative action like installing a -- a mitigation
 12· ·system, without some sort of record of decision
 13· ·allowing us to do that.· So this proposed plan is
 14· ·really very straightforward.
 15· · · · · · ·It -- it -- it gives us the ability to take
 16· ·action if we find a problem in a -- in a -- in a
 17· ·residence or a -- or a property.· This is not cleaning
 18· ·up the site.· This is an interim measure that will
 19· ·protect people's health who are being impacted by the
 20· ·contamination.· In the long term and, you know, as you
 21· ·know, the -- the process can take a long time, we are
 22· ·investigating the groundwater.· And we'll do it -- be
 23· ·doing all the investigations and seeing what kind of
 24· ·cleanup actions we can take to -- to come up with a
 25· ·more permanent solution.· But we're not there yet.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 52
 ·1· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· So -- and sorry if I missed
 ·2· ·this.· So just to clarify, EPA hasn't installed any
 ·3· ·mitigation systems yet; the DEC has.· So this is a way
 ·4· ·for EPA to start doing that as an agency?
 ·5· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Correct.
 ·6· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· Okay.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· So the site is now under, you
 ·8· ·know, Superfund federal authority, so we need to be
 ·9· ·able to install them.· If in the meantime -- just --
 10· ·just for the record, if last year we had found a
 11· ·problem that required mitigation before this decision
 12· ·was signed or if we find one if this gets delayed, we -
 13· ·- we can use our removal program to -- to install a
 14· ·system.· But that's not a long-term solution.
 15· · · · · · ·MR. ELKINS:· So then a follow-up is a sort of
 16· ·-- what -- is there a timeline on -- probably your
 17· ·favorite question from us.· Is there a timeline about,
 18· ·you know, the -- the next steps in the actual real
 19· ·remediation?
 20· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· So it'll be long.· We -- we --
 21· ·at the May -- correct me if I'm wrong, but at the May
 22· ·30th CAG meeting, we do intend to share some results --
 23· ·or at least preliminary results of the initial
 24· ·groundwater sampling we completed.· That will give us
 25· ·an idea of where we need to install additional wells,

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 53
 ·1· ·and it'll help us flesh out the rest of the
 ·2· ·investigation.· We're -- I mean, it will take years to
 ·3· ·-- to get to a -- this meeting for the rest of the site
 ·4· ·unless we determine that some sort of early action is
 ·5· ·needed.· I -- I don't have a solid timeline at this
 ·6· ·point.· We're too early in the process.
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· Can I ask one more thing?             I
 ·8· ·know that Lauren asked this earlier about the boundary,
 ·9· ·but is that -- at -- and I know that we will talk more
 10· ·in detail about this at the CAG meeting on May 30th.
 11· · · · · · ·But when, John, you said that there's no
 12· ·change, does that mean that there's no change as of
 13· ·what you can share right now or as in like right now,
 14· ·in time, there is no change?
 15· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Either today or the next time
 16· ·we meet on May 30th, the outline will be the same.
 17· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· Okay.· Thank you.
 18· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Sure.
 19· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· And then I had one more
 20· ·quick question.· The rolling basis of five -- in the
 21· ·five-year period, does that have -- like, why -- what,
 22· ·you know -- where did that come from?
 23· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· Yeah.· So like Stephanie
 24· ·mentioned, just for cost estimate purposes --
 25· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· Okay.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 54
 ·1· · · · · · ·MS. KETU:· We have to do some kind of
 ·2· ·estimation.· So we just said, for at least five years,
 ·3· ·you know, we're going to be doing the sampling.· But
 ·4· ·that's not, like, set in stone or anything.
 ·5· · · · · · ·MS. VICHNEVSKY:· Okay.· Thank you.
 ·6· · · · · · ·MS. GOODMAN:· Hi.· Another comment, I guess I
 ·7· ·would say I very much appreciate you saying you look at
 ·8· ·things, like, on an individual basis.· And that's great
 ·9· ·for people who, like, know and trust you.· But I would
 10· ·also say that, like, that's not always the case.· And
 11· ·so while it is great that sometimes you go to the
 12· ·residential levels if you think, you know, a commercial
 13· ·building warrants that, I think there is something to
 14· ·having it kind of a little bit more formal.· So I just
 15· ·want to make sure that that is recognized, that, you
 16· ·know, it's all well and good to -- to -- to trust you
 17· ·guys.· But like I said, that's not always the case.
 18· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Yeah.· No.· We -- we appreciate
 19· ·that.· But just -- just to clarify, we could make the -
 20· ·- the -- the case-specific determination to be more
 21· ·conservative, to be more protective.· But we do not
 22· ·have the flexibility to be less protective.· So we
 23· ·wouldn't look at a property and be like, eh, this one
 24· ·doesn't really need mitigation.· You know, it's -- it
 25· ·would be in the more conservative direction.

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 55
 ·1· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Hello.· The November
 ·2· ·to March period for testing, I get that in warmer
 ·3· ·weather, people keep their windows open.· But if we're
 ·4· ·-- is it possible to test, say, a basement where
 ·5· ·there's not much air flow even during warmer weather
 ·6· ·just to kind of get ahead of it, or are we strictly
 ·7· ·staying within these months?
 ·8· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· If -- if we, you know --
 ·9· ·obviously, EPA prefers to do the sampling in the winter
 10· ·heating season.· If we had reasoning to do it outside
 11· ·of the winter heating season, I mean, yes.· We could do
 12· ·it.· We would have to go do it again back in the winter
 13· ·heating season though anyway, unless we found such
 14· ·egregiously high levels down there that, you know, we
 15· ·had the answer we needed in a sense.· If it came back
 16· ·below, we would still have to do it in the winter
 17· ·heating season.
 18· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· What -- so to -- I've
 19· ·one more to -- I'm going to piggyback on his question,
 20· ·but then I have one other question.· So I know that,
 21· ·John, you've explained in the past that for the winter
 22· ·heating season, there's also -- I think there's only
 23· ·like one lab that you-all work with and -- or that
 24· ·processes things and that it takes, you know -- there's
 25· ·only so much that you would even be able to do in a

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 56
 ·1· ·certain period of time.
 ·2· · · · · · ·Are there any limitations, like that kind of
 ·3· ·thing, to the amount of testing that could be done?
 ·4· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· I -- I mean, are there
 ·5· ·limitations on the high end?· I -- I -- I don't know.
 ·6· ·I mean, I -- I had to -- I had to book it very far in
 ·7· ·advance, and I booked a high number.· I mean, we didn't
 ·8· ·-- we didn't get to the number that I booked to.· What
 ·9· ·you're referring to is that, you know, in the winter
 10· ·heating season, everyone does this kind of work.· So
 11· ·it's -- it's a challenge to get lab space.
 12· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Yeah.
 13· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· However, you know, we -- we --
 14· ·we -- because we're planning this that far in advance,
 15· ·we're able to get that lab space.· I think we booked
 16· ·for -- I think it was 24 for, you know, February and --
 17· ·and March, and we got 18.· Next season, because I got
 18· ·18, I'll make sure I'm going to probably book for more,
 19· ·I mean, depending on what type of response we're
 20· ·getting at the end of the year.· But we have to get it
 21· ·that far in advance to guarantee that we don't have the
 22· ·issue of not getting lab access.
 23· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· And then the -- as we
 24· ·discussed that the values are a little bit less
 25· ·protective as compared to DEC's numbers, what -- I know

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 57
 ·1· ·that it depends on the math.
 ·2· · · · · · ·But does that have to do with -- like, is
 ·3· ·there a cost factor?· Does cost factor into that at all
 ·4· ·or --
 ·5· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· As far as into the -- the vapor
 ·6· ·intrusion screening levels we used, there's no cost
 ·7· ·factor in that.
 ·8· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Okay.
 ·9· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· No.
 10· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Thanks.
 11· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Thanks.· In regarding
 12· ·-- you know, assuming the, you know -- the ROD is
 13· ·approved, who will do -- do -- if a property requires
 14· ·the remedy, who physically does the installation?· Does
 15· ·EPA do it directly, or do they have a contractor?· Or
 16· ·can, you know, the property owner actually do it
 17· ·themselves under the guidance of the agency?
 18· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· EPA has been doing the work.
 19· ·What we've been doing -- all the work we've been doing
 20· ·is through the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
 21· ·That's just the way we have this set up.· So the Army
 22· ·Corps and their contractor staff have been doing it all
 23· ·for us.· It would probably be the same for, you know,
 24· ·the mitigation systems if we needed to install any.
 25· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Hi.· There were only

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 58
 ·1· ·two remedies looked at.· I'm assuming that's because
 ·2· ·there's not really another option.· Or are there other
 ·3· ·options that exist or other technologies?
 ·4· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· This is a proven technology
 ·5· ·that has been used in this neighborhood.· And so that's
 ·6· ·why we evaluated that.· You know, one of the other
 ·7· ·technologies -- and I -- I think Rupika might have
 ·8· ·mentioned it is.· And it -- a few -- the State did it a
 ·9· ·few times.· It's just to seal the basement floor and
 10· ·sample again.· Let's say the basement floor has so many
 11· ·cracks in it that it's not hard to figure out why it's
 12· ·getting in that house.· You could, you know, either put
 13· ·a membrane down, or you could seal the floor and then
 14· ·sample it again.· And then, you know, you wouldn't need
 15· ·a -- a, you know, sub-slab depressurization system.· So
 16· ·that's certainly another option.· Sometimes you need to
 17· ·do both.
 18· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· So and -- and that -- just -- I
 19· ·-- the -- the alternative we developed includes the
 20· ·sealing of cracks --
 21· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Yeah.
 22· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· -- and -- as needed, so --
 23· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· But it's just -- this
 24· ·is -- this is what --
 25· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· But just put it all together.             I

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 59
 ·1· ·--
 ·2· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· -- basically anyone --
 ·3· ·everyone does --
 ·4· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Yes.
 ·5· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· -- when there's vapor
 ·6· ·intrusion in people's homes or --
 ·7· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· As far as I know, I don't think
 ·8· ·there's another solution that's as effective or --
 ·9· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Great.
 10· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Yeah.
 11· · · · · · ·MR. SURANI:· There's things that we view that
 12· ·-- at sites, you know, throughout New York State where,
 13· ·for whatever various reasons, the SSDS install, you
 14· ·know, wasn't feasible.· And, you know, it is possible,
 15· ·if there's indoor air impact in the building, to
 16· ·install, like, standalone carbon filtration units.· But
 17· ·they're not as effective as an SSDS to, you know --
 18· ·kind of clearing the air.· They are, you know --
 19· ·there's maintenance associated with it, regular carpet
 20· ·change outs.
 21· · · · · · ·They are, you know, not as effective, and you
 22· ·know, they can be loud and cumbersome.· You know, I --
 23· ·I got a building, you know, in the Bronx that's, you
 24· ·know, got -- got issues going on, and they got, you
 25· ·know, these massive 6-foot-high, you know, units

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 60
 ·1· ·throughout the building.· And it is cumbersome and
 ·2· ·costly to keep those running and -- and -- and maintain
 ·3· ·them and you know -- whereas it's, you know, not as --
 ·4· ·as effective as an SSDS solution.
 ·5· · · · · · ·UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER:· Thanks.
 ·6· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· Any other questions, thoughts,
 ·7· ·comments?
 ·8· · · · · · ·JOHN:· Thanks for doing this, guys.
 ·9· ·Appreciate it.
 10· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· Yeah.· Thank you-all so much for
 11· ·coming.
 12· · · · · · ·MR. BRENNAN:· Thank you, everyone, for
 13· ·coming.
 14· · · · · · ·MS. DRABEK:· We'll be in touch about the next
 15· ·steps when we release the final plan.
 16· · · · · · ·JOHN:· Yeah.
 17· · · · · · ·MS. VAUGHN:· Thanks, everyone.
 18· · · · · · ·(End of Video Recording.)
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                                                                            YVer1f
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting
                                                                  Page 61
 ·1· · · · · · · · · · · · · CERTIFICATE
 ·2
 ·3· · · · · · · I, Doug Yarborough, do hereby certify
 ·4· ·that I was authorized to and transcribed the
 ·5· ·foregoing recorded proceedings, and that the
 ·6· ·transcript is a true record, to the best of my
 ·7· ·ability.
 ·8
 ·9
 10
 11· · · · · · · Dated this 30th of April, 2024.
 12
 13
 14
 15· · · · · · ·___________________________
 16
 17
 18
 19
 20
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25

www.huseby.com            Huseby Global Litigation             800-333-2082
                MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                     Meeting               Index: 00:23:03..action
                         1980    11:11           22:8           900 24:14
            0                                                    33:24
                                               25th  16:21
                                  2              17:18           34:25
 00:23:03
                                                                 36:11
     19:9                2    15:9             26     25:3
 00:23:04                    46:22                                       A
     19:10               20    13:23                     3
                                                                abbreviated
 00:58:41                    18:21             30  22:2
     47:21                   39:24                               13:11
                                                 46:23
 01:01:43                200    36:11                           ability37:5
                                               30th  45:19       51:15 61:7
     50:8                2005    6:5             52:22
                                                                absentee
                         2006    6:6             53:10,16
            1                                    61:11           34:9
                         2007    6:11                           acceptable
 1     22:19                 25:1,20           350    13:22
                                                                 29:2
 1,000      38:15        2021    38:10         38     35:12
                                                                acceptance
 10    18:21             2022    6:11,                           15:2,3
                                                         4
     41:16                   14,19                              accepting
 10,000         49:4         10:18             40     29:14      16:20
                             25:20 35:7
 100    15:23                                                   access 10:8
                             38:10                       5
     21:11,12,                                                   21:17 24:2
                             39:24
     22                                                          37:3,7
                         2023    10:18         50     22:1
 11    10:21                                                     38:8
                             39:24             5th  6:21         39:12,14,
     37:12,22
                         2024    10:23           15:8            15,19
 13    10:19                                                     40:12
                             11:4 16:21
 15    10:24                 61:11                       6       44:9,13
 160    6:12                                                     45:1,3,7
                         23    10:23           6-foot-high
     22:7 35:5,                                                  56:22
                             35:7                59:25
     12                                                         account
                         24    9:24            60     38:20
 17    35:15                                                     19:25
                             13:22
 18    11:3                  20:23                              Act   11:12,
                                                         9
     35:9,14                 29:10,11                            14
     56:17,18                56:16             90     10:4      action       11:1
                         25     6:13                             12:24


www.huseby.com                    Huseby Global Litigation               800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting               Index: actions..Avenue
   14:3,4,5,          39:16               allowing              38:12 41:2
   16 15:7          advance                 51:13               44:9 46:4
   16:16              56:7,14,21          alternative          areas 18:20
   20:12                                    14:7 15:9           19:16,17,
   31:15            advice     39:9
                                            58:19               18 29:10
   51:10,11,        advises                                     35:3 38:1
   16 53:4                                alternatives
                      39:14
                                            14:2,6,13          argue     43:10
 actions    29:8    Advisory
   31:21              10:15               amount  29:3,        Army     57:20,
   39:12                                    17 56:3             21
                    affect  5:17
   51:24                                  amounts              arrival     25:1
                      8:25 43:19
 active  19:5                               33:11              arrived
                    affiliation
   40:2,6                                 analysis              29:4,21
                      18:4
 actual    12:24                            10:4               arrives     8:22
                    agencies
   45:10                                  Andrea        28:8
                      32:2                                     assessments
   48:23
                    agency  28:1          Anna     10:9         12:7
   52:18
                      31:6 52:4           appears              assessor
 add  19:21
                      57:17                 26:14,20            29:24
   20:3 23:4
                    ahead     55:6        approved              49:17
   28:9 29:7
   30:9             air  5:18,21            57:13              assume     13:24
 added     6:14       6:12 7:20           approximately        assuming
                      15:25                 24:9                29:10
 additional
                      16:20               April  6:21           57:12 58:1
   10:16 11:2
                      31:22                 15:8 61:11         attorney
   16:17
                      32:20                                     28:10
   18:21                                  area  4:22
                      37:23,24                                  39:10
   19:17                                    5:3,5,7,18
                      45:2
   52:25                                    6:11,24            authority
                      46:21,22,
 address              24 47:3               7:12 10:9           39:11 52:8
   16:24,25           55:5                  15:24              authorized
   21:24 27:6         59:15,18              20:6,10             61:4
                                            24:8
 addressing         Alliance                                   avail     39:2
                                            25:19,22
   4:10 6:22          28:19                 26:2,5,13          Avenue 5:2
   19:14
                    allowed     21:6        31:6 34:24          7:3 15:23
 administrative                             35:2 37:16          27:22


www.huseby.com               Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
              MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                   Meeting               Index: aware..building
   31:2,8                14:5                blocks        24:17    26:8 29:23
 aware     4:12        basement              blower        15:18    30:10
   34:6                  8:19 9:6,                                  34:16,20,
                                             blue     34:24         23 35:13
                         22 15:14
                         40:23 41:1          Board     22:19        36:14,19,
          B
                         44:25 55:4                                 25 37:11
                                             body     26:15,
 baby    20:25           58:9,10                                    40:7 41:13
                                               18
                                                                    42:2,19
 Bach  39:20           basically             book     56:6,         43:20
   41:9 42:1             8:7 59:2              18                   44:4,16
 back  9:16            basis  16:1           booked        56:7,    45:12
   10:2,5                23:9,13               8,15                 50:10
   28:20 29:1            30:16                                      53:15,18
                                             border        24:10
   35:16                 53:20 54:8                                 55:8 56:4,
                                               27:11
   39:23                                                            13 57:5,9,
                       beginning
   40:3,8,15,                                bother        36:3     18 58:4
                         17:24
   17,24                                     bound     48:19        60:12
                         33:22
   41:8,18,22                                                      briefly     7:9
                       beneath               boundaries
   42:7                                                             48:25
   55:12,15              7:23,24               26:17
                         8:8 9:7,20          boundary              bright     30:18
 background
   8:24                Bennett                 53:8                broadly     49:5
                         24:15,16            box     9:1           Bronx     59:23
 backing
                         25:5,16
   23:16                                     BQE  5:6              Brooklyn     5:3
                       big     41:19,          19:6                 22:19
 balance
                         20                                         25:24 42:4
   46:10                                     breaks        8:1
                       biggest                                     brought
 balancing                                   breathing
                         38:7,23                                    33:21
   14:20,24                                    8:11
                       bisected     5:6                            bucket     49:19
 based  12:18                                BRENNAN
   17:15               bit  6:17               18:19,25            build     7:23
   21:16,22              20:12                 19:4,8,11
                                                                   building
   25:19                 37:18                 20:18 21:8
                         46:16 49:1                                 5:22 8:2,
   26:4,6                                      22:10
                         54:14                                      9,10 9:7,
   32:16                                       23:6,22
                         56:24                                      11,20
   40:4,14                                     24:11,13,
                                                                    15:15,20
 baseline              block     46:4          22 25:13
                                                                    16:10,12


www.huseby.com                  Huseby Global Litigation                    800-333-2082
              MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                   Meeting               Index: buildings..collect
   20:21                  48:23                 61:1                city 24:18
   25:21               call   41:14           certify       61:3     25:10
   37:17,18               45:17                                      28:24
   38:1 40:20                                 cetera        18:5     31:12
   41:21               called   7:21            30:24                37:21
   44:11                  8:3 12:10,          chair     22:18
                          19,23 20:7                                clarify    38:5
   48:8,14                                                           39:11
                          46:19               challenge
   54:13                                                             46:16 52:2
                                                35:24 36:7
   59:15,23            calls   41:23                                 54:19
                                                56:11
   60:1                   44:18
                                              chance        36:21   clean     11:15
 buildings             cameras      17:8
   7:23,25                                    change                cleaners
                       cancer   6:3             53:12,14             5:21
   10:21 13:7
                          49:8,9                59:20
   21:11                                                            cleaning 6:7
   33:20 34:9          canister                                      8:25 19:2,
                                              changed
   37:12,14,              9:19                  41:20                4 51:17
   25 38:8             canisters              characteristic        cleanup4:25
   39:24,25               9:22 10:3           s 16:10                12:9,11,
   40:4 41:11
                       carbon     59:16       characterizati         13,18,21,
 built    7:24                                on 49:1                23,25
                       carpet     59:19
 business                                                            13:1,5,17
                       case   7:9             check  13:2
   18:5 42:23                                                        14:2,16,21
                          10:15 11:9            44:4,5
                                                                     17:15
 businesses               40:11               Chesler                51:24
   25:9                   54:10,17              22:17
                                                                    cleanups
                       case-specific            23:14
                                                                     11:18
          C                                     24:7,12
                          54:20                                      30:24
 CAG  10:14,           cases   37:24          chief     31:1,3
                                                                    clearing
   16 42:5                40:17               children               59:18
   45:18               cemented                 13:21
                                                                    close 31:23
   52:22                  9:10                chime     29:5         38:15
   53:10
                       center                 chlorinated           closely    33:4
 calculated               37:24,25              5:8,20 6:9
   13:19,22                                                         cluster
                       CERCLA     11:14         7:13,14
   49:16                                                             45:17
                       CERTIFICATE            circumstances
 calculus                                                           collect    9:20
                                                36:1

www.huseby.com                   Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting         Index: comment..contamination
 comment             community               40:1               consent
   12:15               10:14 15:2          conclusion            39:13
   17:3,11,22          18:5 20:9             16:7               Conservation
   29:7,15,19          22:19                                     6:7 20:2
   42:17               36:17               concur        15:7
   43:12               39:17,21,             33:7               conservative
   49:21,22            22 45:22,           conditions            29:9
   50:16 54:6          23,24                 9:14 16:9,          54:21,25
 comments 4:6        comparable              11                 consideration
   12:16 15:6          30:21               conduct       11:5    15:4 43:8
   16:21,22          compare     14:6        12:1,6             considered
   17:1,12,17                                16:5                28:1 42:11
   18:1 30:2         compared
                       43:6 56:25          conducted            constant
   60:7
                                             8:12,18             31:4
 commercial          Compensation            16:1               constructed
   4:11,16             11:13
                                           conducting            38:2
   13:6,18,23        complete                4:13 6:19          consultation
   19:3                4:23 9:13
   20:14,20,                               confirm       41:9    20:1
                     completed
   25 21:6                                 confirmation         contact
                       44:11,14
   29:8,17                                   16:17               39:10
                       45:6 52:24
   31:25                                     44:13
                     complex                                    contaminants
   32:9,17,19
                       10:20               conflict              5:13 12:4
   33:10,24
                                             26:24               13:10 25:7
   42:7,13           comply     14:17
   43:1 54:12                              confusing            contaminate
                     compounds               50:6                7:20
 committed             5:9,15,19,
   33:3                20 6:9              Congress             contaminated
                       7:13,15,17            11:11               5:8,19
 Committee
                                           connect       9:18    7:12,21,24
   22:18             Comprehensive
                                             36:12               8:17 11:16
 common     5:20       11:12                                     13:8,13
   28:4              concentrations        connecting
                                                                contamination
                       12:5 35:3             15:17
 communication                                                   5:24
   31:5              concern 5:14          consensually          11:17,20
                       6:1 13:10             39:19               40:5 51:4,
 communities
   46:12               33:24 37:9                                20


www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                  800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting               Index: context..decision
 context     29:5    correctly             crosstalk            day 8:22
 continue              32:7                  47:19               9:8,16
   4:19 11:5         cost  14:22,            49:18               10:2 13:22
                       24 15:22            cubic     46:23,      20:22,23
 contract                                                        34:6 35:25
   45:10               21:21                 24
                       26:24               cumbersome           days 10:4
 contracted            53:24                                     13:23
   26:6                                      59:22 60:1
                       57:3,6                                    29:12
                                           curious
 contractor          costly     60:2                            dealt     46:18
   57:15,22                                  20:11
                     costs  11:18            25:11              Deborah
 converse              21:25                                     26:11
                                           current
   36:16               26:25                 43:10              debriefed
 convoluted          couple  12:22                               33:21
   27:5                                    CVOCS     5:10,
                       17:8 24:17            15                 DEC 22:7
 Cooper                28:20                                     28:23 29:5
   10:20,25            29:21                                     30:22
                                                     D
   34:1 36:12          39:23                                     31:6,11
   37:11             covered               danger        49:4    38:11
 cooperate             28:11               dark     36:5         48:18 52:3
   39:17,19          crack     41:19                            DEC's     56:25
                                           dash     7:1
 coordinate          cracks     8:1                             DEC-LED
                                           data  11:3
   27:20               14:11                                     30:23
                                             24:19
 coordinated           15:13                 25:11,17           December
   27:14               58:11,20              26:16               35:7 42:21
 coordinates         Creek  5:6              30:21 35:8
                                                                decide     11:24
   26:15               7:5 27:10             40:10,14,
                       28:5,19               18 41:8            decision
 coordinating                                                    12:20
                       31:3                  44:23 45:2
   26:18                                                         17:13,14,
                                             46:14
                     criteria
 coordination                                47:23               16 21:25
                       11:23                                     22:2,4
   31:4                                      48:4,17
                       14:14,15,                                 32:14
 Corps     57:20,      20,24 15:2          date     38:6,
                                                                 33:15 37:4
   22                  31:19 32:3            22
                                                                 50:15
 correct 21:8          44:3                Dated     61:11       51:12
   52:5,21


www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting     Index: decisions..easy-to-understand
   52:11                54:20               directly          double       44:4,
 decisions            determinations          57:15             5
   32:13 33:6           19:23 32:5          discovered        Doug     61:3
 deeper     23:3      determine               6:8             DRABEK  17:19
 delayed                12:4 16:3,          discovery           18:10,14,
   52:12                15,18 53:4            11:20             17 20:4
                      determined            discuss             22:16
 deliver     10:3                                               47:15,18
                        10:24                 48:15
 Department             23:21                                   60:6,10,14
                                            discussed
   6:6 20:1,2           26:21 29:2                            draw  16:7
                                              56:24
 depending              34:1                                    31:24
                                            distance
   56:19              determining                             draws     8:8
                                              23:10 24:5
 depends     57:1       26:25                 44:6            drum     19:5
 deployed             developed             distinction       dry     19:2,4
   24:20                58:19                 31:25           Dudek  30:25
 depressurizati       developing              32:9,17           31:1 33:2,
 on 8:4,6               4:24                dive     23:4       7 47:22
   14:11              development                               48:8,12
   15:12,17                                 document
                        20:8                  17:14 23:7        50:7
   16:19
   24:20,23           developmental           33:15           dug     15:19
   58:15                49:11               documentation
                      difference              23:3                     E
 description
   4:2 5:1              31:19               documented        e-mail
 design     12:23     differences             31:14             16:22,24
                        31:19 42:6          documenting
 designing                                                    earlier      41:7
   12:22              difficult               29:25             53:8
                        34:8                documents
 detail     53:10                                             early  17:19
                      difficulties            49:22             53:4,6
 details     23:2       38:13
   32:10                                    DOH     31:9      easily       50:5
   42:22              dinner    36:3        door  10:10       East     5:3
 determination        direction               35:21 36:5
                                                              easy-to-
   30:16                54:25               doors     8:15    understand
   31:10                                                        49:25

www.huseby.com                 Huseby Global Litigation                800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting                Index: echo..exposure
 echo     38:5       encourage               40:7 44:21    evaluating
 ecological            47:12                 48:14           4:25 11:3
   12:7              end  4:6                52:2,4        evaporate
                       17:2 19:18            55:9            5:17
 economic                                    57:15,18
   20:8                22:1 56:5,                          evening
                       20 60:18            EPA's  12:13      17:21
 effective                                   24:25 35:4
   14:21             ends     17:11                        event     15:10
                                             46:12
   59:8,17,21        enforcement                           Evergreen
                                           EPA-LED
   60:4                28:12                                 20:7
                                             11:18
 effects 6:3         Engineers                             evidence
                                           equally
   49:8,9,11,          57:20                                 16:14
   12,13                                     14:25
                     enter     7:25                          30:13
                                           establish
 effectually         entered     7:15        14:5          exist     24:18
   20:16                                                     58:3
                     entire     4:25       established
 efforts
                                             11:11         expanded
   10:7,18           entities
                       26:23                                 26:6
   37:3 39:18                              estimate
                                             21:18,21      expanding
 egregiously         entity     26:18
                                             34:24           50:23
   55:14             environment
                                             53:24         expect
 eight-hour            14:19 43:5
                                           estimated         20:21,24
   13:24             Environmental
                                             15:23         expedited
 elderly               6:6 11:12,
                                             21:22 22:2      4:14
   13:21 21:1          13 20:1
                       22:18               estimates       expediting
   42:16
                                             15:25           4:15
 electric            EPA  6:14
                       8:22                estimation      explain 7:9
   15:18
                       11:15,17,             54:2            11:9 13:16
 Elkins  28:18         21 18:22                              20:11
                                           evaluate
   30:7,19             25:14
   32:6                                      12:9,11       explained
                       28:12,22              14:5,13         50:5 55:21
   50:11,19            29:2,4
   52:1,6,15                                 26:17 43:7
                       31:4 32:4                           explaining
                                           evaluated         49:2,14
 emphasize             33:5 35:5
   14:23               38:5,9                14:2,8
                                                           exposure
                       39:8,11               33:9 58:6
                                                             13:6


www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation              800-333-2082
              MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                   Meeting                   Index: extent..gas
   20:19,20            feasible              fine     21:14        12:18
   41:5 49:9,            59:14               five-year             17:14
   13                  February                53:21              formally
 extent       5:24       35:10 41:7          flesh     53:1        17:2
 extremely               56:16                                    forthcoming
                                             flexibility
   34:8 35:20          federal     6:23        33:16               39:15
                         52:8                  54:22              found 25:19
          F            feedback                                    28:4 41:11
                                             flip     13:4
                         12:18                                     52:10
 faces    4:13                               floor  8:19
                       feel  29:3                                  55:13
 facilities                                    9:6,11,13,
                         34:13,15              22 34:5            foundation
   19:6
                         36:10                 36:13               7:23 8:2
 facility                39:10                                     14:12
                                               37:14
   20:25                                                           15:14,19
                       fell     33:12          40:21
 fact  27:13                                   41:3,19             16:12
                       felt     33:13
   40:4                                        42:24              free     39:10
                       figure     28:6         44:25
 factor       57:3,                                               freestanding
                         58:11                 58:9,10,13
   7                                                               9:23
                       figuring              flow     55:5
 fairly       44:18                                               fresheners
                         48:22
 fall     20:24                              focusing              5:21
                       filtration              5:25
 falls    11:10          59:16                                    full     5:23
   46:9                                      folks  13:21         fully    33:7
                       final  17:14            32:24 49:2
 familiar                60:15                                    functioning
   4:12 7:8                                  follow-up
                       find  5:20                                  9:17
   10:15 11:8                                  38:24
                         8:20 14:9             52:15              future       39:4
 fan  8:7                15:10                                     43:11
   15:18                                     foregoing
                         16:20
                         19:16                 61:5
 faster       10:1                                                         G
                         23:23 37:6          forgot        19:9
 favorite                                                         gaps 14:12
                         40:23               form     41:19
   52:17                 51:16                                     15:13
 feasibility             52:12               formal  17:22
                                                                  gas 5:7 9:4
   6:16 12:2,                                  18:2 54:14
                       finding     26:7                            23:25
   10                                        formalize             37:23


www.huseby.com                  Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting               Index: gave..holistically
   40:23               43:9,25              45:5 49:23           20:2 49:5,
 gave  28:2,           44:7 49:21           50:12 54:6           8 51:19
   25 45:3             54:6               guidance              hear 4:7
 general     13:5   government              28:12                7:1 37:10
   30:25               11:17                57:17               heard     7:10
 generalities       Gowanus     6:25      guideline             hearing     32:7
   31:1                27:19                46:22
                                                                heating8:13
 generally          great   4:8           guys  6:25             10:18,22
   45:16               50:21                10:15                11:6 35:17
                       54:8,11              16:24 17:7           38:10
 gentleman             59:9                 54:17 60:8
   42:23                                                         55:10,11,
                    greater     22:1                             13,17,22
 gentleman's                                        H            56:10
                    Greenpoint
   28:22
   30:20               5:3 6:8            half  9:15            Heide     31:1
                       7:4                  10:1                helium     9:17
 geological
   16:9             ground     36:13      handled               helpful
                       37:14                44:21                29:1,4
 give  4:1,4
   17:22 18:3       groundwater           happened               32:10
   29:5 33:16          5:7,11               17:12               helping
   37:5 40:19          6:10,19              41:17                10:17
   41:15               7:12,15,22           43:23
                       23:24                                    hey     41:15
   45:20 46:1                             happening
   52:24               27:13                                    high 43:17,
                                            50:16,20
                       51:22                                     25 55:14
 good  4:7                                  51:7
                       52:24                                     56:5,7
   10:10 17:7                             hard  10:8
   22:6 24:1        Group     10:15                             higher     35:3
                                            35:20
   29:12            grow     39:5                                43:22
                                            49:23
   34:15            guarantee               50:12               highest
   37:10               56:21                58:11                43:21
   40:7,19
                    guess   25:10,        hardworking           history4:1
   41:16
                       16 30:17             34:10                6:5 36:17
   42:20 50:7
   54:16               36:16              hazard        49:15   hold     11:16
                       42:5,17
 Goodman     42:3                         health  6:1           holistically
                       43:9 44:2
                                            12:6 14:19           30:14,15


www.huseby.com               Huseby Global Litigation                    800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting                 Index: home..install
 home  9:9           human  12:6           implementable      37:23 45:2
   14:10               14:19                 14:23            46:21,24
   20:19,22          hundred               implementation     47:3 59:15
   23:8 34:10          23:25                 12:24           indoors     8:17
   42:21               24:11                                  13:13
                                           implemented
 homeowner           hurdle       38:7,      13:2 22:21      industrial
   41:14               23                                     20:8,9
                                           important
 homes  23:11        HVAC     8:15           14:16            29:18
   40:8 45:16                                                informally
   59:6              hydro-                inaudible
                     geological              19:9,10          11:14
 honestly              16:9                  47:20 50:8      information
   50:20,24                                                   16:6 26:3
                                           include 16:8
 hoping     49:24             I              17:17 21:1       27:12
 hour     9:15,                              47:2             35:21
                     idea  45:20                              44:5,9,13
   25                  46:1 52:25            49:10,11,
                                             13 50:1          45:9,13
 hours  9:24         identified                               47:2
   13:22               13:18 15:9          includes
                                                             initial
   20:15,22,           18:21                 14:21
   23 29:11,                                 58:19            52:23
   14 34:11          identify                                initiated
                                           including
   42:8                18:9 28:13                             6:16
                                             13:20
 house  29:12        identifying             32:23           input     17:15
   41:5,16             50:22                 51:10           inside     15:21
   43:18             imagine      25:8     index     49:15    29:12
   58:12                                                      34:24
                     immune       49:12    individual
 household                                   23:9,13          37:12,16,
                     impact       59:15
   5:21                                      32:21 54:8       22
                     impacted
 houses                                    individually      inspect     8:23
                       16:13
   10:20,25                                  33:9            install9:3,
                       34:14
   34:1 36:12                                                 8 15:11
                       51:19               indoor  5:18
   37:11                                                      33:14
   43:18 51:5        impacts      8:20       6:12 15:25
                                             16:20            52:9,13,25
                       16:20
 housing                                     31:22            57:24
   10:21             implement                                59:13,16
                                             32:20
                       12:21

www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting               Index: installation..led
 installation        investigated            53:11                26:22
   57:14               40:2                  55:21                27:17 34:5
 installed           investigating           60:8,16             Kyle 44:8
   6:13 25:2           5:23 6:7            judgment               45:5 46:15
   45:24 52:2          25:18,21              21:23
 installing            28:3 51:22          judicial                       L
   14:10             investigation           39:16
                                                                 lab 10:3
   50:25               4:14,19,24          June  16:21            55:23
   51:11               6:16 12:2,            17:17                56:11,15,
 instance              3 19:15
                                                                  22
   32:18 43:5          39:3 53:2
                                                     K
                                                                 lack     30:13
                     investigations
 intact     16:12
                       6:11,20             KETU  19:7,9          Lael     42:3
 intend     52:22      11:21                 21:14               landlord
 intentional           25:20 38:6            25:18                38:25 39:1
   7:16                51:23                 34:19,22             47:9,25
                                             49:7,20              48:5,16
 interest            involved
                                             50:1 53:23
   38:12               25:1                                      landlords
                                             54:1
 interim     4:21    involvement                                  34:9
                                           kidney        49:10
   51:18               35:4,6                                    language
                                           kids     39:5          13:14
 intrusion           involves
   4:3,5,11,           15:17               kind  11:9            Lauren 26:1,
   15,18                                     21:5                 10 53:8
                     issue  14:9
   5:11,12,14                                36:12,17
                       23:11                                     law 39:11
   6:1,20,22                                 37:17,21
                       56:22                                      46:20
   7:9 8:3,                                  38:23 44:2
                     issued       12:20      48:22                47:4,6,24
   12,14,18
                       15:5                  51:23                48:9
   10:7 11:5
   13:4,10           issues       15:11      54:1,14             laws 14:18
   14:1,8              59:24                 55:6 56:2,           48:20
   15:11 16:4                                10 59:18
                     items    5:21                               layered      27:5
   21:5 46:20                              knocking
   57:6 59:6                                                     leak     9:17
                              J              36:5
 investigate
                                                                 leave     16:23
                                           knowing       48:7
   18:22             John  37:2                                  led     6:10
                                           knowledge
                       48:21 50:7

www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                    800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting                  Index: legal..math
 legal     39:9      liquid     7:18       loud     59:22         32:5,15,23
 legalese            list  6:15            low     38:16          33:5 37:3
   38:25               11:25 12:1                                 40:18,25
                                           lowest        9:5      41:2,3
 legally     14:4    listed     35:6       luckily       8:3      43:16,18
 LESHAK     28:11    live  26:1                                   46:2 50:4
                                           lunch     37:16
   39:7                45:21 46:2                                 54:15,19
                                                                  56:18
 letter     39:1     liver     49:10                 M
                                                                 making     19:22
 letters             lives     42:24
                                           made  10:21            37:4
   38:11,14            43:3
                                             32:16               manager     31:7
   47:1,11,          living  4:22            39:18
   16,18               8:10 41:1,                                manager's
                                           mail     16:22         37:15
 level  9:5            3
   20:17 46:1                              mailed        38:14   managers
                     local     20:7
 levels                                    mailing                27:18
                     located 5:2,
   13:17,19,                                 16:25               Manhattan
                       18 18:19
   24 20:12                                mailings               25:24
   28:21             location
                                             10:12               manufacturing
   54:12               19:1
                                             35:20                20:9
   55:14 57:6        long  14:22
                                           main  5:13            map 6:23
 Liability             27:4
                                             13:9 36:6            34:17
   11:12,14            51:20,21
                       52:20               maintain               45:17
 light     39:2                              60:2
                     long-term                                   marbles     50:8
 likelihood                                maintenance
                       52:14                                     March 6:14
   40:3                                      15:24
                     looked  22:13                                10:23
 limit     22:4                              59:19                35:6,10
                       23:8,13
 limitations           27:1,2              major     11:19        41:7 55:2
   56:2,5              58:1                  32:8                 56:17
 limited     45:9    lot  4:12             make  8:24            mass     10:11
                       12:3 29:13            9:16,17             massive
 lines  8:1
                       30:3,4                13:2 16:7            59:25
   16:14
                       32:25 34:9            17:3 19:21
   30:18                                                         math 20:14
                       45:22,23              30:15
   43:15                                                          57:1
                       46:4                  31:10



www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                    800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting              Index: matrices..nervous
 matrices              41:6 51:8           mitigation           nature     5:24
   32:14               53:24 58:8            6:13 14:8          nearby     22:24
 matrix     31:9     mentioning              15:25               43:19
                       24:1                  19:23 25:3
 means  21:18                                33:14 38:3         necessarily
   22:23             meter     46:23,        47:25               24:5 30:18
   39:16               24                    48:3,9              31:24
 meantime            method  12:13           50:25               34:17
   52:9                13:1 14:21            51:11               43:11
                       17:15                 52:3,11             47:10
 measure     4:21
                                             54:24              needed     16:1,
   15:13             methods     4:25
                                             57:24               16,19
   51:18               10:13
                       12:9,11             mitigative            19:23,24
 media  10:12                                                    38:3 46:6
                                             51:11
   35:22             mic     19:21                               48:1,3
                                           modify        22:3    53:5 55:15
 Meeker  5:1         micrograms
   7:3 15:23           46:23               modifying             57:24
   27:22 28:5                                15:1                58:22
                     microphone
   31:2,8              17:24               moment        7:8    negative
   42:5                18:11                                     22:22
                                           months        55:7
 meet     53:16                                                  23:16
                     migration             mouth     35:22
 meeting               13:12                                    neighbor
   17:25                                   mouthful       5:9    46:8
                     minute     16:23
   45:19                                   move  4:20           neighborhood
   52:22             minutes     41:6        7:19 12:5           25:11,14
   53:3,10           missed     52:1       multiple              58:5
 meets     11:22     mitigate                27:5               neighborhoods
 member     18:5       4:17,21                                   25:5,6
   39:21               6:4 14:10                     N
                                                                neighboring
                       16:19
 membrane                                  named     27:22       43:17,22
                       31:21
   58:13                                                         44:1
                       32:18 37:6          Natalie       20:5
 mentioned                                                      Neighbors
                     mitigated             Natalie's
   7:11 15:16                                                    42:4
                       8:4 31:13             29:8
   19:14                                                        nervous
   27:19             mitigating            National
                                                                 49:13
   28:14 32:3          15:22                 6:15 11:25


www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting                Index: Newtown..part
 Newtown 5:6         numbers  21:1           19:16               outs     59:20
   7:5 27:10           25:8 29:1,            28:15 37:4          overlap
   28:5,19             4,21                open  12:15            26:14
   31:3                30:12,18,             55:3
                       21 31:19                                  oversight
 night     36:2,4                          opposed                26:15
   43:3                32:7,12,16
                       33:1,12               20:22 51:4          overview      4:4
 non-cancer            35:18               option        58:2,   owner     10:6
   6:3 49:8,           43:1,6                16
   11,12                                                          18:5
                       46:25
                                           options       58:3     44:20,22,
 non-                  47:4,20
                                           organic 5:8,           23 45:11
 residential           48:24
                                             15,20 6:9            47:23
   13:25               56:25
                                             7:13,15              57:16
 nonprofit
                              O            organization          owners 34:4
   20:7
                                             20:8                 35:9 39:13
 normal     34:11    objectives                                   44:18
                                           organizing             47:12
 north     35:5        13:5
                                             34:7
   42:4              obtain       39:19
                                           original                       P
 note  16:24         obtaining               35:12
   39:22               38:8                                      paints       5:22
                                           outdoor
 noted     38:6      occupants                                    8:25
                                             37:23
 notification          34:5 47:13                                Paloma       39:20
                                           outdoors
   46:20             occupied                                    parallel
                                             15:20
 notify     10:5       34:10                                      4:20 19:15
                                           outline
   48:1              occur     8:14                               51:8
                                             34:18
 November            ocular       49:13      53:16               Park 10:20,
   6:18 10:22                                                     25 34:1
                     office       27:17    outlined
   55:1                                                           36:12
                       37:16                 35:2
                                                                  37:11
 number  21:12
                     offsite               outreach
   24:4,24                                                       part 14:1
                       22:25                 10:12,16
   25:2 28:3                                                      15:3 18:1
                       23:15                 34:7 35:18
   33:20                                                          42:4
                                             37:3 38:14
   34:17 42:8        oil     6:8 7:4                              45:21,23,
                                             39:18
   56:7,8            ongoing                                      24
                                             44:17
                       15:24 16:1

www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                    800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting         Index: particles..pre-scheduled
 particles             41:3                phases        11:19    41:21
   7:20                42:12,16            phone  41:22          Plume 5:2
 parties               43:11                 44:18                7:3 27:23
   11:16               45:15,20                                   31:2,8
                       46:6,11             phonetic
   26:20                                     24:16               plumes     31:12
   27:21,22            50:16 54:9
                       55:3                  39:21               point 7:14
   28:14
   50:22            people's               physically             26:2 29:8
                       48:4 51:5,            57:14                36:23 37:2
 partner     28:1                                                 53:6
                       19 59:6             pick     10:2
 parts     25:10,                                                policy     28:12
                    percent                picked        51:6
   24                                                             39:14
                       22:1,2
 party     27:25                           pieces        16:6     47:23
                       38:21
 past  7:14                                piggyback             pollution
                    perfect
   10:22                                     55:19                18:9,16,18
                       41:15
   31:20                                   pink  6:25            pool     50:8
                    perfectly
   32:13,14,                                 7:1,5
   15 41:7             40:19                                     population
                                           pit     15:19          34:13
   46:18,25         period     9:24
   47:11               13:22               place  9:21,          populations
   55:21               17:3,11               24 20:16             13:20 21:3
 PCE  13:11            53:21 55:2          places        31:11    42:10,15
   21:5 29:3           56:1
                                           plan  4:5,            port 9:4,8,
   31:23            periodically             10,17 6:21           12,16,19
   46:24               13:2                  11:10               portion
   49:9,10,12       permanent                12:13,15,            17:21
 penetrated            51:25                 19 13:15
                                                                 positive
   34:13                                     14:2 15:5,
                    permission                                    22:25
                                             8,22,24
 people  13:6          44:20,22                                   23:19
                                             16:21 17:5
   20:15 21:6       perpetuate               21:20 37:6          potential
   26:25               8:16                  51:13                39:3 50:23
   29:10,13
                    person     46:10         60:15               potentially
   33:10,20
   34:10            perspective            planning               26:24
   35:25               44:12                 56:14                28:13
   36:2,20                                 plenty        4:6     pre-scheduled



www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                    800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting             Index: preexisting..proven
   8:23                47:22               properly           42:25
 preexisting           48:20                 9:17             43:14,22
   9:14              private               properties         44:1,18,
                       48:3,4                4:11,16,18       20,22,23
 preferred                                                    45:10
   12:12,13          probable                5:18 6:12
                                             10:9,19,         47:20,24
   17:15               18:22                                  51:17
                                             23,25
 prefers     55:9    problem     34:6        11:2,4           54:23
                       51:16                 13:18            57:13,16
 pregnant
   13:21               52:11                 15:23          proportion
   42:16             problems                21:16,24         22:9,14
   43:12               37:6                  24:3,9,14      proposed
                                             29:18            4:5,10,17
 preliminary         proceedings
                                             31:22            6:21 11:10
   5:5 11:22           61:5
                                             33:24            12:13,15
   52:23             process 4:4             34:4,8,25        13:15 14:1
 prepare               6:17 8:2,             35:7,12,         15:5,8,9,
   17:13               21 11:7,              14,15            22 17:5
 present     12:6      10,19                 36:11 37:8       21:20
                       27:23                 38:15
 presentation                                                 50:13
                       28:14                 39:12
   19:22                                                      51:13
                       33:21                 40:12,14
 pretty     31:22      44:10,12,             42:14          protect
                       15 45:8               43:7,19          51:19
 prevent
                       51:21 53:6            44:2           protection
   13:6,12
                     processes             property           20:17
 preventative
                       55:24                 8:22,23          22:18
   15:13
                     products                9:11 10:6      protective
 previously
                       8:25                  14:9 15:11       13:20,25
   40:9                                      16:11            14:19
                     professional
 prior     35:14                             19:24            29:13 51:2
                       21:22
   38:8                                      22:22,24         54:21,22
                     program                 23:17            56:25
 priorities
                       52:13                 30:14,15,
   6:15 11:25                                               protectiveness
   36:6              project                 16 32:19,
                                                              29:16
                       27:18 31:7            22 33:9
 privacy                                     35:9 38:12     proven     24:23
   46:9,11


www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation               800-333-2082
              MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                   Meeting             Index: provide..reimburse
   58:4                  24:17               range  22:3          recommendation
                         26:12                 32:20              s 32:15,23
 provide       39:9
   47:23                 28:20,22,             50:23              recommended
                         25 29:20            rate     38:16,       32:18
 proximity               30:20 36:8
   16:13                                       21                 reconditioner
                         38:25
   22:23                 39:7,8              ratio     29:16       19:5
   23:7,10               40:7                reach     48:14      record 12:19
 PRP   28:4              42:18,20                                  17:13,16
                                             ready     17:18
                         43:13 44:9                                18:2 22:2
 public
                         48:13,22            real  11:8            50:15
   10:20,21                                    28:15
                         50:2 52:17                                51:12
   11:1 12:15                                  42:19 51:3
                         53:20                                     52:10 61:6
   15:6 16:21                                  52:18
                         55:19,20                                 recorded
   17:3,12
                       question-and-         reason  15:3          17:2,25
 publish
                       answer 17:20            20:13 24:2          61:5
   47:14,15                                    25:23 35:1
                       questions                                  Recording
 purpose                                       41:18
                         4:6 16:25                                 60:18
   37:20                                     reasoning
                         17:18,22,
                                                                  redirects
 purposes                25 18:6               55:10
                                                                   8:9
   53:24                 20:4 21:11          reasons
                         27:7 28:20                               referred
 purview       39:8                            41:22
                         29:22                                     28:2
 put  9:2                                      59:13
                         30:1,4                                   referring
   12:12                 60:6                recall        23:7
                                                                   56:9
   21:20                                     receive
   58:12,25            quick  11:8                                reflects
                         53:20                 12:16 15:5
                                                                   15:22
                                               17:16
          Q            quickly      6:23                          regular
                                             received
                         24:7                                      59:19
 qualification                                 17:17 39:1
   22:20,21                                                       regularly
                                R            recently
                                                                   44:19
 quarter       9:5                             27:14
                       radius       43:17                         regulations
 question                                    recognized
                       radon     8:7                               14:18
   17:4 19:19                                  54:15
   21:10                                                          reimburse
                       radon-type            recommend
   22:19                 31:13                                     11:17
                                               31:21


www.huseby.com                  Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting            Index: reintroduction..roof
 reintroduction        52:13               residential       restore     9:13
   43:23             removed     9:12        4:11,16         result 22:23
 relationship                                10:19,25         23:17,19
                     renter's                13:7,18,19
   45:10               44:12                                  46:21
                                             20:14 21:1
 release                                     24:9,14         resulting
                     repeat     18:10
   60:15               33:23                 29:10            7:22
 released                                    31:25           results     9:1
                     reply     30:1
   6:21 15:8                                 32:9,17          10:5,6
                     represented             33:25            16:5,15
 releases              31:7                  42:6,10          24:21
   7:16
                     request                 43:6 54:12       46:20,24,
 relies     31:6       47:10                                  25 47:1,12
                                           residents
 remain     26:5                             36:15            52:22,23
                     requesting
 remaining             45:8                respond           retest     40:12
   11:3              require                 12:17           retesting
 remains     26:8      11:1,2                17:4,11          40:4
 remedial              39:15 45:7          response          review     12:16
   4:13,24           required                11:12,13         17:11
   6:16 12:1,          14:5                  38:15,21
                                                             reviewed
   3,23,24             41:12,14              39:12 50:1
                                                              23:3
   20:12               47:4,6,10,            56:19
   31:15               25 48:2,9                             risk 4:21
                                           responses
   51:10               52:11                                  6:4 12:6,7
                                             17:17
                                                              29:24
 remediation         requires              responsibility     41:11
   26:25 34:2          57:13                 46:13            49:1,15,17
   36:21 39:4        residence             responsible       risks     4:18
   51:4 52:19          51:17                 11:16            49:5
 remedies                                    26:20
                     residences                              ROD     57:12
   58:1                37:13                 27:21,22,
                                             25 28:13        rolling
 remedy     22:21    resident
   57:14                                     50:22            53:20
                       18:4 20:6
 remodel               24:17               responsiveness    roof 8:9
   41:20               26:11 34:4            50:3             15:21
                       44:8                                   43:14,15,
 removal                                   rest     53:1,3
                                                              21


www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation                800-333-2082
              MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                   Meeting                   Index: room..site
 room     5:17           27:13               send     47:1        shut     8:15
 roughly                 28:23,24            sense  45:15         sick     39:5
   38:20                 37:13                 55:15
                         39:12                                    sidewalk
 running       8:16      44:11,14,           sensitive             23:1,15,18
   60:2                  21 45:6               13:20 21:3         sidewalks
 Rupika  19:14           52:24 54:3          series        6:10    23:25
   27:15,18              55:9
                                             set  51:10           signed     52:12
   36:4 58:7           school     10:20        54:4 57:21         significant
 Rupika's                11:1
                                             settings              33:11
   19:22               screening               13:25              significantly
                         57:6
                                             share  26:3           21:23
          S
                       seal     58:9,          27:11,12           similar     8:7
 sample  9:7,            13                    28:15               22:9
   20 25:16            sealing                 30:22               24:18,19
   35:16                 14:11                 32:10               25:6,7,8,
   37:15                 15:13                 46:13,14            9,11 28:24
   39:14                 58:20                 47:5,7,12           36:1 40:16
   40:15 45:1                                  48:4,24
                       season                                     simpler
   58:10,14                                    52:22
                         10:18,22              53:13               13:16
 sampled 11:4            35:17
                                             shared  27:16        single     10:11
   35:5,7,9,             38:10
                                               35:8 45:2,          37:17
   14 40:9               55:10,11,
   41:25                 13,17,22              12                 sister     31:6
   42:25                 56:10,17            sharing              site 4:2,
   46:11                                       45:18               14,25 5:1,
                       seasons     8:13
 sampling                11:6                  48:17               2,10,25
   4:15 6:19                                 Shaun     31:17       6:4,5,14,
                       section
   8:11,12,18                                                      17,20,22
                         31:1,2              shift     26:17
   9:1,12,19,                                                      7:4,6,7
   21 10:2,7           sections              short  5:10           11:22,23,
   11:2,5                35:2                  11:14               25 12:9,19
   12:3 15:25          seeking                 14:22               13:3,11
   16:5,15,17            39:13               show     6:23         14:4 18:4
   24:8,25                                                         19:14
                       select     14:17      showed        25:7    27:10,23,
   25:25


www.huseby.com                  Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting              Index: site-related..state
   25 28:2,         small   9:4,5         sources       8:24    45:16
   10,23               15:18                18:22              specific
   31:11 35:6       social     10:12      space  21:6           45:7,25
   38:9,23             35:22                32:19,24            46:7
   51:9,18                                  33:10
   52:7 53:3        soil   5:7                                 specifically
                       7:19,20,             40:21               13:3
 site-related          21,22,24             44:24,25            25:13,17
   4:10,18             8:17,18              45:4
   13:7 15:10                               56:11,15           speech     33:22
                       9:4,12,21
 site-wide             23:25              spaces        41:3   spend     20:16
   4:13,19             31:9,12              42:17               21:7
                       37:23                                    29:10,14
 sites  6:24                              spare     18:25
   11:16               40:23                                   spending
                                          speak  18:3           33:11
   24:18            sold     36:18          25:13
   25:15            solid    53:5           30:25 49:7         spends     29:11
   26:13,16
                    solution              SPEAKER              spill     6:8
   27:11,12,
                       51:25                18:8,12,            7:4
   15,18
   28:24 29:5          52:14 59:8           15,23 19:2         Spiroff
   30:23 31:5          60:4                 33:18               26:11,12
   40:2,6           sort   19:15            35:11               27:4,8
   59:12               21:22                36:9,15,20          28:17
                       22:13                37:10
 Sixty    38:17,                                               SSDS 59:13,
                       27:14                38:17,19,
   19                                                           17 60:4
                       28:25                24 47:14,
 size  9:4                                  16,19              staff     57:22
                       30:14,23
   37:19               48:23                48:5,11,21         standalone
 slab  9:11            50:12                49:18               59:16
   14:11               51:12                50:18
                                                               standard
   15:12               52:15 53:4           55:1,18
                                                                31:14
                                            56:12,23
 slide  17:9,       sounds                  57:8,10,           start     21:15
   10 19:1             50:13,21             11,25               52:4
   29:2 34:20       source   18:9,          58:21,23           starts     11:20
 slides    6:18        15,17,20             59:2,5,9
                                            60:5               state 6:6
   39:23               19:16,17,
                                                                7:18 15:2,
 slight    31:19       18                 speaking              6 18:19


www.huseby.com               Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting                 Index: State's..TCE
   20:1 23:24       straightforwar        subset        5:16    6,7 14:11
   24:25            d 51:14                                     15:12,17
                                          substances
   25:1,4,19        street     10:11        5:16                16:19
   26:22              22:25                                     24:20,23
   27:24 28:1                             subsurface            31:14
                      23:15,17
   31:4,12,                                 16:8                33:14
                      34:7 46:1
   20,23 32:7                             successful            49:12,13
   35:4 38:9,       stress     19:13                            51:12
                                            38:3
   11,22              30:12                                     52:14
                                          suction
   40:9,16          strictly                                    58:15
                                            15:19
   45:13              55:6                                     systems6:13
   46:17,19                               sue    39:4
                    structure                                   8:15 25:3
   47:24              8:8 16:10           summary       50:3    45:24 46:6
   50:24 58:8         41:21                                     50:25 52:3
                                          Superfund
   59:12                                                        57:24
                    structures              4:3 5:2
 State's 38:6         16:13                 6:15,24
   46:22 51:2                               7:4,6,7                     T
                    struggle
 state-led                                  11:7,15,
                      35:19                                    takes 9:14,
   6:24                                     19,23,25
                    struggled               21:25               25 10:4
 States    57:20      38:22                                     27:24
                                            39:11 51:9
 stay  7:18                                 52:8                55:24
                    study  5:5
   9:23 17:9          6:17 12:2,                               talk 4:9
                                          supervisor
 staying     55:7     11 15:24              27:10               6:17 7:10
                                                                12:14
 Stephanie          stuff    50:8,        supplies
                                                                44:15
   28:11,14           14                    5:22                48:25 53:9
   32:3 53:23       sub-  14:10           SURANI  31:18        talked       42:8
 steps  12:22         15:11                 32:12 33:3
   19:24 51:3                               38:4,18,20         talking42:5
                    sub-slab
   52:18                                    46:16               49:3,15
                      8:4,6 9:4
   60:15              15:16                 59:11              targeted
 Steve     22:17      16:18               surrounding           21:13
 stone     54:4       24:22                 31:5               TCE 13:11
                      37:23                                     21:5 29:3
 storage     41:1                         Sutton        46:3
                      40:23                                     31:23
                      58:15               system        8:5,    32:19


www.huseby.com               Huseby Global Litigation                   800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting             Index: team..unacceptable
   46:23            tested  6:12            22:20           touch 16:3
   49:8,9,11          39:23,24              23:20            60:14
 team     34:7        40:20                 28:21           tough     35:25
                      41:16               thresholds
 technologies         42:21                                 tracks       19:15
   58:3,7                                   30:23 42:6       51:9
                      45:16                 51:1
 technology         testing                                 traditional
   24:23,24                               tied     21:18     43:4
                      23:15,18
   25:3,15            26:4,5              time  4:6         transcribed
   58:4               41:10                 8:23 11:6        18:1 61:4
 temperature          45:22 46:4            20:19,20
                                            21:7 26:8       transcript
   5:17               50:23 55:2
                                            28:16            61:6
                      56:3
 tenant  10:6                               33:11           tremendous
   44:24 45:3       tests  22:8,            35:14,16         35:23
   46:19 47:9         22,25                 36:3 39:2
   48:6                                                     trichloroethyl
                    tetrachloroeth          40:16,17        ene 5:12
 tenants            ylene 5:13              41:10,17         6:2 13:9
   39:4,13            6:2 13:9              43:2 50:12
   44:18                                    51:21           true     61:6
                    thing  19:22,
   47:5,13            25 30:9               53:14,15        trust     54:9,
   48:1,10            39:22                 56:1             16
 tend     20:15       48:13,18            timeline          tumors       49:10
                      50:21 53:7            26:3
 term  14:22                                                type 41:4
                      56:3                  52:16,17
   30:13                                                     56:19
                    things     20:23        53:5
   51:20                                                    typical
                      40:16               times     58:9
 terms  13:16                                                44:17
                      43:8,12
   22:23,24                               today  4:1,9      typically
                      54:8 55:24
   24:7,8                                   5:25 12:14       5:16 8:12,
                      59:11
   27:21                                    15:4 17:1        15,17,18
   44:10 45:5       thoughts                25:2 31:7        9:6,8 10:4
   49:1,3,25          18:6 60:6             53:15            21:1 44:16
 test  9:17         three-day             tonight
   10:19,23           8:21                  29:24                    U
   40:24            threshold             top     7:5
   41:12 55:4         14:15                                 unacceptable
                                          topic     33:19    29:16

www.huseby.com               Huseby Global Litigation                800-333-2082
           MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                Meeting         Index: understand..widespread
 understand           40:22               vast     29:17        vulnerability
   28:22 29:4         59:16,25            VAUGHN        19:12    42:9
   49:23 50:6       update       10:7       21:19               vulnerable
 understandable       28:15                 22:13                42:11,14
   50:5             upstairs                27:3,6,9
 understanding        43:3                  30:9,11                      W
   49:5 50:12                               36:23 37:1
                    utility      8:1        51:6 52:5,          wanted 6:23
 Understood                                 7,20 54:18           11:9 13:16
   45:5                      V              58:18,22,            20:3 33:19
 UNIDENTIFIED                               25 59:4,7,           38:4 46:7
                    values       46:22      10 60:17
   18:8,12,                                                     wanting      36:2
                      56:24
   15,23 19:2                             vented        38:1
                    vapor  4:3,4,                               warmer       55:2,
   33:18
                      10,14,15,           ventilation            5
   35:11
   36:9,15,20         18 5:11,              8:16                warranted
   37:10              12,14,25            venting                33:13
   38:17,19,          6:20,22               43:13,19            warrants
   24 47:14,          7:9,21,22,                                 54:13
                                          vents     15:20
   16,19              24 8:3,8,
   48:5,11,21         11,13,18            VI     8:11           ways     12:8
   49:18              9:12,21             Vichnevsky            weather
   50:18              10:7 11:5             20:5,6               55:3,5
   55:1,18            13:4,10               21:4,9              website      17:6
   56:12,23           14:1,8                22:6,11,15
   57:8,10,           15:10 16:4            53:7,17,            week     29:12
   11,25              31:9,12               19,25 54:5          weekends
   58:21,23           46:20                                      43:3
                                          vicinity
   59:2,5,9           50:25 57:5
                                            24:3                weighted
   60:5               59:5
                                          Video     60:18        14:25
 unintentional      vapors  8:11,
                                          view  17:5            wells 23:18,
   7:16               17 9:7
                                            50:4 59:11           25 52:25
                      13:8,13
 unique    37:18                                                whatnot      24:1
                      15:20,21            volatile
 unit     45:8        51:5                  5:8,15,20           widespread
 United    57:20    varied       43:15      6:9 7:13,            40:5
 units    36:13                             14,17


www.huseby.com               Huseby Global Litigation                    800-333-2082
            MEEKER AVENUE PLUME SUPERFUND SITE PUBLIC MEETING
                                 Meeting            Index: Williamsburg..zone
 Williamsburg          48:16                 56:20
   5:3                 55:23               years  13:23
 Willis     28:18      56:10                 16:2 28:4
   29:23               57:18,19              37:7 41:16
   50:11             workday                 53:2 54:2
 Willis's              13:24               yellow        7:4
   48:22 50:2        worked  35:20         York  5:4
 window     43:24      46:18 47:8            6:6 26:22
 windows     8:15    workers                 31:11,12,
   55:3                43:10,11              23 46:17,
                     working 4:22            19,22
 winter  8:13                                47:24
   10:18,22            8:10 10:8,
                       14 13:3               59:12
   35:17
   55:9,11,            19:19               you-all       4:7
   12,16,21            27:23 33:4            20:11
   56:9                50:22                 39:23
                     workplace               48:25
 Wolff-alport                                55:23
   7:7 27:19           29:14
                                             60:10
 women  13:21        works  9:18
                       20:8 27:15          young     13:21
   42:16
 wondered            writing      30:6
                                                     Z
   34:12               48:24
                     written      30:3     zone     29:18
 wondering
   23:4 42:13          33:15

 word  21:2          wrong     52:21
   35:22
   41:13                      Y

 work  11:22         Yarborough
   20:6,21             61:3
   26:1 27:17
                     year  13:23
   28:19 32:4
                       37:13
   36:1,2
                       39:25
   39:21
                       40:20
   42:16
                       52:10

www.huseby.com                Huseby Global Litigation            800-333-2082
