                         FIFTH FIVE-YEAR REVIEW REPORT FOR
              WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP. (SHARON PLANT) SUPERFUND SITE
                           MERCER COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA




                                                     Prepared by

                                      U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
                                                     Region 3
                                            Philadelphia, Pennsylvania


PAUL             Digitally signed by PAUL LEONARD


LEONARD
                 Date: 2026.09.01 09:57:18 -04'00'


---------------------------------
Paul Leonard, Director
Superfund and Emergency Management Division
U.S. EPA, Region 3
Table of Contents
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ..................................................................................................ii
I. INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................................................ 1
    Site Background ...................................................................................................................................... 1
    FIVE-YEAR REVIEW SUMMARY FORM .................................................................................................... 4
II. RESPONSE ACTION SUMMARY ............................................................................................................... 4
    Basis for Taking Action ............................................................................................................................ 4
    Response Actions .................................................................................................................................... 5
    Status of Implementation ..................................................................................................................... 10
III. PROGRESS SINCE THE PREVIOUS REVIEW ........................................................................................... 14
IV. FIVE-YEAR REVIEW PROCESS ............................................................................................................... 16
    Community Notification, Community Involvement and Site Interviews.............................................. 16
    Data Review .......................................................................................................................................... 16
    Site Inspection....................................................................................................................................... 18
V. TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT ...................................................................................................................... 18
    QUESTION A: Is the remedy functioning as intended by the decision documents? ........................... 18
    QUESTION B: Are the exposure assumptions, toxicity data, cleanup levels and RAOs used at the time
    of the remedy selection still valid? ....................................................................................................... 18
    QUESTION C: Has any other information come to light that could call into question the
    protectiveness of the remedy? ............................................................................................................. 19
VI. ISSUES/RECOMMENDATIONS .............................................................................................................. 20
VII. PROTECTIVENESS STATEMENT ........................................................................................................... 20
VIII. NEXT REVIEW ..................................................................................................................................... 21

APPENDIX A – 2023 SEDIMENT REMOVAL AREA ..................................................................................... A-1
APPENDIX B – DATA REVIEW ................................................................................................................... B-1
APPENDIX C – SITE PHOTOGRAPHS ......................................................................................................... C-1




                                                                              i
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CERCLA    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
CFR       Code of Federal Regulations
COC       Contaminant of Concern
EPA       U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
ESD       Explanation of Significant Differences
FYR       Five-Year Review
HHRA      Human Health Risk Assessment
IC        Institutional Control
LNAPL     Light Non-Aqueous Phase Liquid
MCL       Maximum Contaminant Level
MCLG      Maximum Contaminant Level Goal
NCP       National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan
NPL       National Priorities List
mg/kg     Milligrams per Kilogram
OU        Operable Unit
OU-1      Operable Unit 1
OU-2      Operable Unit 2
PADEP     Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
PCB       Polychlorinated Biphenyl
PFAS      Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances
PRP       Potentially Responsible Party
RAO       Remedial Action Objective
ROD       Record of Decision
SLERA     Screening-Level Ecological Risk Assessment
TCE       Trichloroethene
TEQ       Toxicity Equivalent
TI        Technical Impracticability
UAO       Unilateral Administrative Order
UU/UE     Unlimited Use and Unrestricted Exposure
µg/L      Micrograms per Liter




                                            ii
I. INTRODUCTION

The purpose of a five-year review (FYR) is to evaluate the implementation and performance of a
remedy to determine if the remedy is and will continue to be protective of human health and the
environment. The methods, findings and conclusions of reviews are documented in FYR Reports such
as this one. In addition, FYR Reports identify issues found during the review, if any, and document
recommendations to address them.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is preparing this FYR pursuant to the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) Section 121, consistent with the
National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP) (40 Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR) Section 300.430(f)(4)(ii)), and considering EPA policy.

This is the fifth FYR for the Westinghouse Electric Corp. (Sharon Plant) Superfund site (Site). The
triggering action for this statutory review is the completion date of the previous FYR. The FYR has been
prepared because hazardous substances, pollutants or contaminants remain at the Site above levels
that allow for unlimited use and unrestricted exposure (UU/UE).

The Site consists of two operable units (OUs). This FYR includes a review of Operable Unit 1 (OU-1) that
addresses soils and Operable Unit 2 (OU-2) that addresses groundwater, storm sewer drainageways,
Shenango River sediments, and riparian soils.

EPA led the FYR with support from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP).
The PRPs were notified of the initiation of the FYR. The review began on August 13, 2025.

Site Background
For more than 60 years, Westinghouse Electric Corp. (Westinghouse) produced distribution
transformers, power transformers and related electrical apparatus at the former transformer plant
(Westinghouse Plant) on the Site. Some transformers produced at the Westinghouse Plant were filled
with a dielectric fluid called Inerteen. Inerteen was nonflammable and consisted of undiluted
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) or a mixture of PCBs and trichlorobenzene. Westinghouse first used
Inerteen at the Sharon plant in 1936 and discontinued its use in 1976. During operations, leakages and
spills of PCBs contaminated soils; storm sewer drainageways that lead from the plant to the Shenango
River; sediments and riparian soils of the Shenango River; and groundwater at and downgradient of the
former plant. The Westinghouse Plant located on the Site stopped operating in 1984.

The Site is located on the west side of Sharpsville Avenue in the City of Sharon, Mercer County,
Pennsylvania (Figure 1). For purposes of conducting the environmental investigations, the
Westinghouse Plant was divided into three areas: the North Sector, Middle Sector and South Sector.
Currently, the Westinghouse Plant houses a variety of industrial businesses, including Sharon Coating,
LLC (South Sector) and the Ellwood Crankshaft Group (North Sector).

The Site is in the Shenango River Valley. The Shenango River varies from 800 to 2,000 feet west of the
Westinghouse Plant and flows south. There are two aquifers at the Site. The alluvial aquifer is
unconfined and associated with alluvial deposits. The groundwater in the lower, bedrock aquifer is
present under confined or semi-confined conditions in Orangeville Shale. An 8-foot to 80-foot thick
                                                   1
layer of glacial till underlies the alluvial aquifer and acts as an aquitard between the alluvial aquifer and
the bedrock aquifer. Groundwater in the alluvial and bedrock aquifers generally flows west-southwest
toward the Shenango River.




                                                     2
Figure 1: Site Location Map




                              3
FIVE-YEAR REVIEW SUMMARY FORM


                                          SITE IDENTIFICATION
     Site Name: Westinghouse Electric Corp. (Sharon Plant)
     EPA ID: PAD005000575
     Region: 3               State: PA           City/County: Sharon / Mercer

                                              SITE STATUS
     NPL Status: Final
     Multiple OUs?                       Has the Site achieved construction completion?
     Yes                                 Yes


                                            REVIEW STATUS
     Lead agency: EPA
     Author name: Aaron Mroz

     Author affiliation: EPA Region 3, Remedial Project Manager
     Review period: 8/13/2025 - 9/2/2026
     Date of site inspection: 6/10/2026
     Type of review: Statutory
     Review number: 5
     Triggering action date: 9/2/2021
     Due date (five years after triggering action date): 9/2/2026



II. RESPONSE ACTION SUMMARY

Basis for Taking Action
EPA proposed the Site to the National Priorities List (NPL) in June 1988 and added the Site to the NPL in
August 1990. In June 1997, Westinghouse submitted a final Screening-Level Ecological Risk Assessment
(SLERA). In April 1998, Westinghouse submitted the final Baseline Human Health Risk Assessment
(HHRA). The HHRA evaluated carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic risks to various potential human
receptors from contaminants of concern, including PCBs, lead, and arsenic, which contaminated media
at the Site. The results of the HHRA indicated unacceptable carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic risk in
soil and groundwater via ingestion, dermal contact, and inhalation exposure pathways. The SLERA
included a conclusion that there is potential unacceptable risk in the sediment and riparian soils. The
Site contaminants of concern (COCs) by media are included in Table 1.


                                                    4
Table 1: Site COCs
 Media                                 Contaminant
 Soil                                  PCBs                                   arsenic
                                       lead                                   manganese
 Drainageway                           PCBs
 Sediment                              PCBs
 Riparian soil                         PCBs
 Groundwater                           1,2-dichlorobenzene                    trichloroethene
                                       1,4-dichlorobenzene                    vinyl chloride
                                       1,2-dichloroethane                     bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate
                                       cis-1,2-dichloroethene                 benzene
                                       2,3,7,8-TCDD (teq)                     arsenic
                                       1,2,4-trichlorobenzene                 barium
                                       Aroclor 1242                           beryllium
                                       PCB Aroclor 1248                       cadmium
                                       PCB Aroclor 1254                       chromium
                                       PCB Aroclor 1260                       cyanide
                                       tetrachloroethene                      mercury
Notes:
   1. The groundwater COCs listed are the COCs included in the Technical Impracticability (TI) Waiver for
       federal Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCLs) and federal non-zero Maximum Contaminant Level Goals
       (MCLGs).
   2. In order to evaluate all dioxins and furans, a toxicity equivalency factor is to adjust a concentration to a
       dioxin toxicity equivalent (TEQ) concentration. 2,3,7,8-TCDD (teq) is the dioxin toxicity equivalent
       concentration.

Response Actions
From 1976 to 1986, Westinghouse voluntarily undertook several cleanup actions, including:
   • Excavation and off-site disposal of more than 7,800 tons of PCB-contaminated soil, including
      soil from five underground storage tanks and from the cleanup of a spill in the moat area
   • Removal and off-site disposal in a permitted landfill of 60 cubic yards of PCB-contaminated fly
      ash from two settling tanks and a reservoir for the collection of hot water, known as a hot well
   • Recovery and off-site incineration of 104 gallons of PCB liquid discovered in a concrete sump
   • Removal, shredding, and incineration of more than 4,500 PCB-containing capacitors

In February 1994, EPA issued a Unilateral Administrative Order (UAO) to Westinghouse for
development and implementation of a Response Action Plan for removal of light non-aqueous phase
liquid (LNAPL) from groundwater under the tank farm in a part of the Site referred to as the Middle
Sector to reduce the threat of off-site LNAPL migration. The LNAPL response action used skimmers,
bailers, and absorbent socks to remove the LNAPL. The LNAPL was containerized and shipped off-site
for proper disposal. The LNAPL response action was terminated after EPA issued the Record of Decision
(ROD) for OU-2 in 2003.




                                                         5
OU-1
EPA selected the remedy for OU-1 in a February 18, 2000 ROD (2000 ROD), and an April 30, 2020
Explanation of Significant Differences (ESD) (2020 ESD). The 2000 ROD and 2020 ESD document the
selected remedy for OU-1 (OU-1 Selected Remedy). The OU-1 Selected Remedy consists of
characterization, excavation, treatment, and off-site disposal of contaminated soils and institutional
controls (ICs). The Remedial Action Objective (RAO) identified in the 2000 ROD for OU-1 is to reduce
the risk posed by contaminated soils to acceptable levels for industrial use of the Site. The OU-1
Selected Remedy also defined surface soil as soils from the ground surface to a depth of two feet and
subsurface soil as soils deeper than two feet. The cleanup criteria requirements for each contaminant
were calculated utilizing site-specific, risk-based calculations and correspond to specific Site areas and
surface soil depths. The specific areas with surface soil cleanup criteria are listed below in Table 2. The
specific areas are shown on Figure 2.

Table 2: Surface Soil Cleanup Criteria in the OU-1 Selected Remedy
 Area                    Location          Depth Below       Contaminant                 Surface Soil
                         Description       Ground Surface                                Cleanup
                                                                                         Criteria
 A/B Slab                  If exposed soil    0-10 inches            PCBs                1 milligram per
 North Sector                                                                            kilogram
 Y Building (S, E, N)                                                                    (mg/kg)
 Former Tank Farm                                                    Lead                1,000 mg/kg
 Middle Sector East                                                  Arsenic             104 mg/kg
 Sharpsville Avenue                           10-24 inches           PCBs                25 mg/kg
 Slope                                                               Lead                1,000 mg/kg
 Remaining Sitewide                                                  Arsenic             104 mg/kg
                           If area paved      0-24 inches            PCBs                25 mg/kg
                                                                     Lead                1,000 mg/kg
                                                                     Arsenic             104 mg/kg
 Railroad Property         Railroad           0-10 inches            PCBs                25 mg/kg
 Winner Truck                                                        Lead                1,000 mg/kg
 Roadway and                                                         Arsenic             104 mg/kg
 Railroad Spur                                10-24 inches           PCBs                71 mg/kg
 Y Building (W)                                                      Lead                1,000 mg/kg
                                                                     Arsenic             104 mg/kg
 Moat                      Backfill           0-24 inches            PCBs                1 mg/kg
                                              Or
                                              0-10 inches            PCBs                1 mg/kg
                                              10-24 inches           PCBs                25 mg/kg
Note: The letters after the Y building refer to the four directions around the Y building.




                                                         6
Figure 2: Surface Soil Cleanup Criteria Areas




                                                7
OU-2
EPA selected the remedy for OU-2 (OU-2 Selected Remedy) in a February 20, 2003 ROD (2003 ROD).
The OU-2 Selected Remedy includes the following components:
   •       Groundwater monitoring with no further action
   •       A TI Waiver of drinking water standards (described below)
   •       ICs
   •       Removal and off-site disposal of PCB-contaminated sediments from about 600 feet of the
           Wishart Court sewer line north of Silver Street
   •       Excavation and off-site disposal of PCB-contaminated riparian soils in the floodway along
           the eastern edge of the Shenango River downstream from Clark Street
   •       Excavation and off-site disposal of up to 48 inches of PCB-contaminated sediments in the
           Shenango River in areas between the Clark Street Bridge and the dam immediately
           downstream of the intake of the Aqua America water treatment plant
   •       Fish tissue monitoring

EPA issued a TI Waiver because of the technical impracticability from an engineering perspective of
restoring the groundwater to beneficial use due to the presence of dense non-aqueous phase liquids.
The EPA TI Waiver waived federal MCLs and federal non-zero MCLGs within the TI Zone for the
groundwater COCs listed on Table 1. The extent of the TI Zone is presented on Figure 3.

The RAOs for the OU-2 Selected Remedy are as follows:
   •      To prevent human exposures via ingestion, inhalation and dermal contact to site-related
          contaminants in the groundwater
   •      To eliminate potential exposures of ecological receptors to riparian soils where those soils
          have total PCB concentrations greater than 10 mg/kg, and to minimize the probability that
          soils having PCB concentrations between 1 and 10 mg/kg would erode into the Shenango
          River
   •      To eliminate the possibility of sediments containing concentrations of PCBs of 1 mg/kg or
          greater located in the storm sewer drainageways from migrating into the Shenango River
   •      To eliminate the possibility of exposure of ecological receptors to Shenango River sediments
          with total PCB concentrations greater than 1 mg/kg




                                                  8
Figure 3: Extent of TI Zone




                              9
Status of Implementation

OU-1
In September 2000, EPA issued a UAO to three Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs), Viacom Inc.
(formerly Westinghouse and now Paramount Global), Winner Development LLC, and AK Steel
Corporation, to conduct the OU-1 remedial design and remedial action required to implement the
2000 ROD.

The OU-1 cleanup occurred from October 8, 2001 to September 1, 2004 and included excavation of
about 44,460 tons of PCB-contaminated soils. Most excavated soils were sent for off-site disposal at
permitted residual waste or hazardous waste landfills. A portion of the excavated soils, containing less
than the cleanup criteria of 25 mg/kg PCBs, was used for fill material in several of the specific cleanup
areas identified in the 2000 ROD. Additionally, soil containing less than 25 mg/kg of PCBs was used as
backfill in an area of the Site named the Sharpsville Avenue Slope. After excavation of contaminated
soils and backfilling, large portions of the Site were paved.

The Site is inspected twice a year to confirm the conditions of the capped areas and repairs have been
made as needed.

OU-2
On April 29, 2003, EPA issued a UAO to the PRPs to conduct the OU-2 remedial design and remedial
action required to implement the 2003 ROD.

To monitor the TI Zone, the remedial action included the installation of additional monitoring wells
along the perimeter of the TI Zone, abandoning monitoring wells, retrofitting or re-establishing
damaged monitoring wells, and establishing an initial monitoring schedule. Groundwater is sampled
within and on the perimeter of the TI Zone to monitor potential contaminant migration. The recovery
of LNAPL from groundwater was terminated as stated in the 2003 ROD, but in 2014, EPA requested
that the PRPs restart the LNAPL recovery activities. LNAPL recovery is now performed semi-annually via
manual bailing or sorbent socks. Approximately 40 gallons of LNAPL have been removed and disposed
of offsite over the last five years. Since LNAPL recovery activities restarted in 2014 through the end of
2025, approximately 136 gallons have been removed and disposed of offsite.

In 2004, PCB-contaminated sediments were removed from the Wishart Court sewer line and were
disposed of offsite. During the sediment dredging activities sampling was conducted from the Clark
Street outfall and the results indicated the presence of PCBs. As a result of additional assessment
activities, sediment and debris were removed from the Clark Street storm sewer and the connecting
storm sewer under the Middle Sector building. Additionally, roof drains that feed into the Middle
Sector storm sewer were also cleaned. All removed material was properly disposed of offsite.

In 2004 and 2005, sediments contaminated with PCBs greater than 1 mg/kg and riparian soils
contaminated with PCBs greater than 10 mg/kg were cleaned up in a ¼-mile section of the Shenango
River. The area cleaned up extends from the Clark Street Bridge to the dam immediately downstream
of the intake of the Aqua America water treatment plant. Excavations were made to a maximum depth
of 48 inches, and areas where PCBs in excess of 1 mg/kg remained after excavation were backfilled.


                                                   10
The remedial action resulted in excavation and off-site disposal of about 12,615 tons of PCB-
contaminated sediments and riparian soils.

In 2023, sediments with PCBs greater than 1 mg/kg were removed from an area directly south of the
Clark Street Bridge by the Clark Street outfall. This area was dredged in 2004 and 2005, but was
recontaminated. This additional action excavated 1,131 tons of PCB-contaminated sediments that
were disposed of at an off-site facility. A figure presenting the excavation area from the remedial
action completion report documenting the 2023 work is included in Appendix A.

Institutional Controls
All ICs called for in the decision documents have been implemented. The decision documents call for
the ICs to provide for worker safety, to limit soil disturbance, to prevent the installation or use of
groundwater wells, and to prevent use of the Site for residential purposes. The ICs are summarized in
Table 3 and shown on Figure 4.

Table 3: Summary of Implemented Institutional Controls
  Media, Engineered
                                 ICs Called
 Controls, and Areas
                         ICs     for in the   Impacted             IC                  Title of IC Instrument
 That Do Not Support
                       Needed     Decision      Areas           Objective             Implemented and Date
   UU/UE Based on
                                Documents
  Current Conditions
                                                         Reduce the risk posed by
                                                          contaminated site soils
                                                          to acceptable levels for
                                                         industrial use by stating
                                                           that the property shall
                                               South
        Soil            Yes        Yes                      only be used for the            1994 Deed
                                               Sector
                                                                 purpose of
                                                           manufacturing and/or
                                                           warehousing products
                                                          that are non-hazardous
                                                            and non-consumable

                                                         Prohibits drilling or use
                                                         of private groundwater
                                                See                                    2000 City of Sharon
    Groundwater         Yes        Yes                     wells as a source of
                                              Figure 4                                     Ordinance
                                                         water for either potable
                                                             or industrial use

                                                         Restricts the installation
                                                           of new groundwater
                                                            wells or use of any
                                                           existing groundwater
                                                            wells, prohibits the
                                               North
 Soil & Groundwater     Yes        Yes                     property from being           2003 Title Notice
                                               Sector
                                                            used for residential
                                                         purposes, and prevents
                                                          the disturbance of the
                                                           surface without prior
                                                            approval from EPA



                                                   11
 Media, Engineered
                                ICs Called
Controls, and Areas
                        ICs     for in the   Impacted               IC                   Title of IC Instrument
That Do Not Support
                      Needed     Decision      Areas             Objective              Implemented and Date
  UU/UE Based on
                               Documents
 Current Conditions
                                                          Restricts the installation
                                                            of new groundwater
                                                             wells or use of any
                                                            existing groundwater
                                                             wells, prohibits the
                                              Middle
Soil & Groundwater     Yes        Yes                       property from being            2004 Title Notice
                                              Sector
                                                             used for residential
                                                          purposes, and prevents
                                                           the disturbance of the
                                                            surface without prior
                                                             approval from EPA
                                                          Restricts the installation
                                                            of new groundwater
                                                             wells or use of any
                                                            existing groundwater
                                                             wells, prohibits the
Soil & Groundwater     Yes        Yes        Y Building     property from being            2004 Title Notice
                                                             used for residential
                                                          purposes, and prevents
                                                           the disturbance of the
                                                            surface without prior
                                                             approval from EPA
                                                          Reduces the risk posed
                                                            by contaminated site
                                                            soils by requiring the
                                                               flooring and/or
                                                           subsurface material if
                                              Middle                                        2006 Notice of
  Soils & Flooring     Yes        Yes                        disturbed would be
                                              Sector                                        Encumbrance
                                                             stored, treated and
                                                                disposed of in
                                                            accordance with the
                                                          Toxic Substance Control
                                                                      Act


                                                               Prevents the            Pennsylvania Public Health
                                             Shenango
       Fish            Yes         No                      consumption of PCB-            Advisory, 2026 Fish
                                               River
                                                            contaminated fish                Consumption


                                                          Reduces the risk posed
                                                           by contaminated site
                                                            soils by requesting
                                                                                       2016 Informational Letter
                                             Railroad        notification about
Soil & Groundwater     Yes        Yes                                                    to Norfolk Southern
                                             Property      intrusive activities so
                                                                                          Railway Company
                                                            EPA can coordinate
                                                             about appropriate
                                                                  activities




                                                   12
Figure 4: Implemented ICs




                            13
III. PROGRESS SINCE THE PREVIOUS REVIEW

This section includes the protectiveness determinations and statements from the previous FYR as well
as the recommendations from the previous FYR and the status of those recommendations.

Table 4: Protectiveness Determinations/Statements from the 2021 FYR
                     Protectiveness
     OU #                                               Protectiveness Statement
                     Determination
                                         The remedy for OU-1 is protective of human health
                                          and the environment. All exposure pathways that
                                              could result in unacceptable risks are being
       1                Protective
                                         controlled. Soil contamination has been excavated
                                          or capped. ICs are in place to prevent exposure to
                                                            contaminated soil.
                                            The remedy for OU-2 is currently protective of
                                         human health and the environment. Groundwater
                                             is monitored annually to determine whether
                                              contaminants of concern are exceeding the
                                          performance standards outside the limits of the TI
                                         Zone. The PCB-contaminated material in the storm
                                              sewer drainageways has been removed and
                                         disposed of offsite. PCB-contaminated riparian soils
                                         and sediments have been remediated, but there is
       2          Short-term Protective    an area of sediments that were recontaminated.
                                               ICs are in place to prevent the exposure to
                                           contaminated groundwater and consumption of
                                             PCB-contaminated fish. For the remedy to be
                                         protective in the long term, the PCB-contaminated
                                          sediments near the Clark Street outfall need to be
                                            excavated and disposed offsite. Additionally, it
                                                 should be determined whether the TCE
                                             groundwater plume is Site-related, and if so,
                                              follow-up actions will need to be evaluated.




                                                 14
                              Protectiveness
          OU #                                                  Protectiveness Statement
                              Determination
                                                    The remedy is currently protective of human health
                                                    and the environment. Soil contamination has been
                                                     excavated or capped. Groundwater is monitored
                                                      annually to determine whether contaminants of
                                                       concern are exceeding performance standards
                                                         outside the limits of the TI Zone. The PCB-
                                                         contaminated material in the storm sewer
                                                       drainageways has been removed and disposed
                                                        offsite. PCB-contaminated riparian soils and
                                                     sediments have been remediated, but there is an
                                                     area of sediments that were recontaminated. All
        Sitewide        Short-term Protective
                                                           exposure pathways that could result in
                                                     unacceptable risks are being controlled. ICs are in
                                                      place to prevent exposure to contaminated soil,
                                                           groundwater and consumption of PCB-
                                                    contaminated fish. For the remedy to be protective
                                                    in the long term, the PCB-contaminated sediments
                                                     near the Clark Street outfall need to be excavated
                                                       and disposed offsite. Additionally, it should be
                                                    determined whether the TCE groundwater plume is
                                                          Site-related and if so, conduct a remedial
                                                                investigation/feasibility study.

     Table 5: Status of Recommendations from the 2021 FYR
                                                                                                      Completion
OU                                                         Current      Current Implementation
             Issue               Recommendation                                                         Date (if
 #                                                          Status         Status Description
                                                                                                      applicable)
                                Evaluate whether the
                                   TCE groundwater
        There is a TCE
                               plume is Site-related. If
         groundwater                                                       Additional sampling
                                the TCE groundwater
        plume with an                                                    indicated the TCE plume
2                                plume is determined     Completed                                    5/31/2023
       unknown source                                                   does not appear to be site
                               to be site-related, then
       located outside                                                           related.
                                  conduct a remedial
          the TI Zone.
                               investigation/feasibility
                                        study.
        Sediment in the
                                  Dredge the PCB-                         PCB-contaminated
      vicinity of the Clark
                                    contaminated                        sediment was removed
2     Street outfall have                                Completed                                    5/22/2024
                                 sediment near the                       and disposed of at an
              been
                                 Clark Street outfall.                 approved off-site location.
       recontaminated.




                                                           15
IV. FIVE-YEAR REVIEW PROCESS

Community Notification, Community Involvement and Site Interviews
A public notice was made available in the Sharon Herald newspaper, on April 18, 2026 stating that
there was a FYR underway and inviting the public to submit any comments to EPA. No responses were
received in response to the public notice. The results of the review and the report will be made
available on the site profile page at https://www.epa.gov/superfund/westinghouseelectric.

Data Review

Over the last five years monitoring has continued, which provides data to evaluate the effectiveness of
the remedies.

Groundwater Monitoring
Groundwater sampling has been performed annually to determine whether contaminants of concern
are migrating beyond the boundary of the TI Zone. Monitoring wells are screened within the alluvial
and bedrock aquifers. Since the start of the groundwater monitoring required by the 2003 ROD, the
number of monitoring wells sampled and the analyses on the specific monitoring wells have changed
at different times due to COCs no longer being observed in certain wells and items discussed in FYRs.
The long-term monitoring was revised after the last sampling event included in this FYR. For the last
sampling event included in this FYR, October 2025, the list of monitoring wells sampled plus their
analyses is included as Appendix B, Table B-1 and the monitoring well locations are shown as Appendix
B, Figure B-1.

Over the last five years benzene, chlorobenzene, tetrachloroethene, trichloroethene (TCE), cis-1,2-
dichloroethene, vinyl chloride, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and PCBs were detected
above their respective MCLs in monitoring wells located within the TI Zone. The highest total PCB
groundwater concentration observed over the past five years was 6,100 µg/L (micrograms per liter) in
monitoring well M-2 which is a monitoring well that has LNAPL removed semi-annually.

Over the last five years, concentrations in the monitoring wells outside the TI Zone have been below
federal MCLs with the exception of one monitoring well. In 2024, arsenic was observed in monitoring
well OS-9A at a concentration of 22 µg/L, which is above the federal MCL of 10 µg/L. This was the only
time since 2017 that arsenic has been detected above the federal MCL in monitoring well OS-9A.
Arsenic has been detected above the federal MCL in several of the monitoring wells within the TI Zone.
These exceedances have been consistent in one monitoring well while in other wells it is more
sporadic.

Storm Sewer Drainageways
The likely transport pathway of PCB contamination from the Site to the sediments in the Shenango
River is the storm sewer drainageways that originates in the Middle Sector building and then travels
into Clark Street and then finally discharge from the Clark Street outfall. There have been five sampling
events from the drainageways following the removal of contaminated sediment by the Clark Street
outfall in 2023. The sample location is at a location outside the middle sector building before the storm
sewer drainageway reaches Clark Street. With the exception of one of the sampling events, PCBs have

                                                   16
not been detected above laboratory detection limits. PCBs were detected at a concentration of 0.036
µg/L in the last monitoring event in 2025. The detected concentration is below the 3 µg/L level that
would require additional sampling. Moving forward the monitoring is scheduled to continue on an
annual basis.

TCE Source Area
As part of the investigation into the storm sewer, in 2019, elevated levels of TCE were observed in the
groundwater entering the storm sewer system somewhere in the vicinity of Clark Street, likely in the
vicinity of the Sawhill Tube Site. The Sawhill Tube Site is located west of the North Sector and Middle
Sector. The cleanup for the Sawhill Tube Site was overseen by PADEP. Reports from the Sawhill Tube
Site attributed the TCE groundwater plume to the Westinghouse Plant.

The investigation to determine the source of TCE included the installation of monitoring wells, soil
sampling, and groundwater water sampling. The investigation did not indicate a source of TCE on the
North Sector. The highest TCE groundwater concentrations were observed on the southwest corner
North Sector in the deep monitoring well N-8B. TCE groundwater concentrations were detected at
higher levels to the west on the Sawhill Tube Site. Additionally, TCE Concentrations were orders of
magnitude less at N-8A and N-9B than N-8B. A groundwater figure from the TCE investigation is
included as Appendix B, Figure B-2. The data indicates that the source is likely not the Site but either
the railroad or the Sawhill Tube Site.

Fish Tissue
The OU-2 Selected Remedy required a fish tissue monitoring plan to be implemented with the purpose
to determine the edibility of the fish tissue from the Shenango River. Previous sampling events
performed by the PRP to assess fish tissue occurred in 2003, 2005, 2010, 2015, 2016, and 2020. No
standards were set for fish tissue in the 2003 ROD; instead, PCB concentrations were expected to
decline once the PCBs in the sediments of the Shenango River had been addressed. There currently is a
“Do Not Eat” advisory to all fish species in the Shenango River.

For this FYR, one of the PRPs performed fish tissue sampling on August 27, 2025, per the fish tissue
sampling plan included in the Remedial Action Work Plan, dated January 29, 2021. Fish were collected
from the Shenango River between the Clark Street Bridge and the dam next to the Aqua America water
treatment plant. Five carp, five smallmouth bass and five catfish were collected. Each fish caught was
weighed and had its length measured. One fillet from each fish was analyzed for PCBs. In addition, the
five fillets from each species were composited and analyzed for PCBs. The table summarizing the 2025
fish tissue sampling results is included as Appendix B, Table B-2 and figures comparing the PRP
collected fish tissue events since 2003 are included as Appendix B, Figure B-3 through Figure B-5.

PCB-Aroclor 1260 was detected in all fish samples. Concentrations ranged from 0.040 mg/kg to 4.9
mg/kg and potential additional cancer risk from fish ingestion ranges from 2E-5 to 2E-3. The fish tissue
concentrations are highly variable between the same species of fish, but overall concentrations appear
to be decreasing. PCB concentrations in at least one tissue sample of catfish and carp exceeded the fish
ingestion value of 1.9 mg/kg used as a threshold value by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for their
“Do Not Eat” fish advisories. The risk from ingestion of fish remains unacceptable but the “Do Not Eat”
fish advisory remains an effective and necessary component of the remedy.


                                                   17
Site Inspection
The site inspection took place on June 10, 2026. Participants included the EPA Remedial Project
Manager, EPA human health and ecological risk assessors, and EPA hydrogeologist. Representatives
from PADEP and the PRPs also participated in the site inspection. The purpose of the site inspection
was to assess the protectiveness of the remedy and nothing was observed that affects the
protectiveness of the remedy.

The site inspection started at the Clark Street outfall where PCB-contaminated sediments were
removed in 2023. Vegetation was well established in the riparian zone. A “Do Not Eat” fish sign was
posted along Clark Street. The participants continued to Westinghouse Plant, where use has not
changed much over the last five years. One change is an aquaponics operation in the Middle Sector
Building. No issues were noted in any of the capped areas. Pictures from the inspection are included in
Appendix C.

V. TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT

QUESTION A: Is the remedy functioning as intended by the decision documents?

The remedy is functioning as intended by the decision documents. The PRPs continue limited LNAPL
removal activities, and the groundwater is monitored annually to determine whether contaminants of
concern are exceeding federal MCLs beyond the limits of the TI Zone. Arsenic was detected above the
federal MCL in one monitoring well outside the TI Zone in 2024, but arsenic was below the federal MCL
in the most recent sampling event. This one exceedance appears to be an anomaly but warrants
further scrutiny to determine if it becomes a trend. The PCB-contaminated riparian soil and sediment
above cleanup levels were removed. The ICs are in place and maintained. Over the last five years, EPA
and PADEP have been informed of and have reviewed all plans when building tenants have needed to
excavate into the soil. Signs are visible in the Middle Sector Building indicating the walls are
contaminated with PCBs.

QUESTION B: Are the exposure assumptions, toxicity data, cleanup levels and RAOs used at the time
of the remedy selection still valid?

The RAOs used at the time of remedy selection are still valid. Many standardized methodologies have
changed since the baseline risk assessment was prepared, including dermal guidance, inhalation
guidance, default exposure factors, and guidance on carcinogenicity via a mutagenic mode of action.
Toxicity factors and exposure assumptions have also changed. However, these changes do not impact
the protectiveness of the remedy and cleanup levels are still valid. The implemented remedy removed
or covered soils exceeding cleanup levels in soils. The exposed soil cleanup levels for arsenic and lead
are still within the acceptable range for workers, as specified in ROD as future industrial landuse.
Exposed soils at the Site have PCBs at 1 mg/kg or less (10 mg/kg in riparian soils), and where clean fill
was used on the surface, the PCB concentrations were less than 1 mg/kg. Using updated worker
exposure factors and toxicity factors, these concentrations are still protective. The soil cleanup levels of
25 mg/kg for PCBs and soil cleanup levels of 104 mg/kg for arsenic is within the acceptable risk range
for industrial worker while the soil cleanup level of 689 mg/kg for PCB exceeds acceptable risk level of
1E-4 for industrial worker. However, the remedy consists of restricting the use for industrial use and

                                                    18
includes restriction on disturbing surface soils so the remedy remains protective. The 1 mg/kg PCB
cleanup levels for sediment remains valid, because the 1990 Guidance on Remedial Actions for
Superfund Sites with PCB Contamination states that PCB concentrations of 1 to 2 mg/kg will be
protective of wildlife. The riparian soils are vegetated or supported with riprap to minimize the
probability that soils having PCB concentrations between 1 and 10 mg/kg are eroding into the
Shenango River. While groundwater concentrations exceed MCLs within the TI Zone there is a TI
Waiver in place that means the groundwater is not required to be cleaned up because it is not feasible
from an engineering perspective. The continued implementation of institutional controls will prevent
the future use of contaminated groundwater.

Multiple rounds of vapor intrusion sampling have been performed at the Site. Most of the buildings did
not demonstrate unacceptable risks due to vapor intrusion. In some buildings, high concentrations of
chemicals were noted in indoor air but could not be linked to subsurface contamination, and indoor
sources were suspected. At some buildings, sub-slab VOCs could cause levels of concern in the future,
depending on the attenuation into indoor air, but there were no unacceptable indoor concentrations
at the time of sampling. Resampling may be recommended in the future, especially if conditions
change, such as changes in building use or slab integrity.

The reduction of PCBs in sediment was also expected to reduce the level of PCBs in fish tissue over
time. No specific standards were selected by EPA for fish tissue, but as stated previously, the risk from
fish ingestion remains unacceptable. The “Do Not Eat” fish advisory remains in effect, preventing
human exposure.

Current or anticipated land use at or near site remains urban residential and industrial. The landuse is
not expected to change in future. No known changes in building conditions or use at and around the
Site has been noted. The receptors and exposure routes considered at the time of developing RAOs
and remedy selection remain valid.

Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are a class of synthetic fluorinated chemicals developed for
their surfactant and durability properties. PFAS are known to be highly persistent and mobile in the
environment. There is a Westinghouse Electric Corporation patent from 1955 that indicates that
fluorinated organic compounds were used as a dielectric fluid. It is unknown if these transformers were
manufactured during the historical operations at the Westinghouse Plant, but the potential presence
of PFAS should be evaluated in the groundwater to determine if it is present at the Site.

QUESTION C: Has any other information come to light that could call into question the protectiveness
of the remedy?

No other information has been identified that could impact the remedy.




                                                   19
VI. ISSUES/RECOMMENDATIONS

                                       Issues/Recommendations
   OU(s) without Issues/Recommendations Identified in the FYR:
   OU-1


   Issues and Recommendations Identified in the FYR:


   OU(s): 2            Issue Category: Changed Site Conditions
                       Issue: It is possible that PFAS was used as a dielectric fluid in transformers that
                       were manufactured at the Site.
                       Recommendation: Groundwater sampling should be performed to determine if
                       PFAS are present and related to the Site.
    Affect Current        Affect Future      Party Responsible      Oversight Party       Milestone Date
    Protectiveness       Protectiveness
   No                  Yes                   PRP                   EPA/State             3/3/2028


VII. PROTECTIVENESS STATEMENT

                                       Protectiveness Statement(s)
   Operable Unit: 1             Protectiveness Determination:
                                Protective
   Protectiveness Statement:
   The remedy for OU-1 is protective of human health and the environment because direct exposure
   pathways have been eliminated by the implantation of the remedy. Soil contamination has been
   excavated or capped and the capped areas are in good condition. ICs are in place to prevent exposure
   to contaminated soil.


                                       Protectiveness Statement(s)
   Operable Unit: 2             Protectiveness Determination:
                                Short-term Protective
   Protectiveness Statement:
   The remedy for OU-2 is currently protective of human health and the environment. Groundwater is
   monitored annually to determine whether contaminants of concern are exceeding the performance
   standards outside the limits of the TI Zone. The PCB-contaminated material in the storm sewer
   drainageways has been removed and disposed of offsite. PCB-contaminated riparian soils and
   sediments have been remediated. ICs are in place to prevent the exposure to contaminated
   groundwater and consumption of PCB-contaminated fish. For the remedy to be protective in the long
   term, sampling should be performed to determine if PFAS are present and related to the Site.


                                                     20
                                      Sitewide Protectiveness Statement
     Protectiveness Determination:
     Short-term Protective
     Protectiveness Statement:
     The remedy is currently protective of human health and the environment. Soil contamination has been
     excavated or capped. Groundwater is monitored annually to determine whether contaminants of
     concern are exceeding performance standards outside the limits of the TI Zone. The PCB-contaminated
     material in the storm sewer drainageways has been removed and disposed of offsite. PCB-
     contaminated riparian soils and sediments have been remediated. All exposure pathways that could
     result in unacceptable risks are being controlled. ICs are in place to prevent exposure to contaminated
     soil, groundwater and consumption of PCB-contaminated fish. For the remedy to be protective in the
     long term, sampling should be performed to determine if PFAS are present and related to the Site.


VIII. NEXT REVIEW

The next FYR Report for the Westinghouse Electric Corp. (Sharon Plant) Superfund site is required five
years from the completion date of this review.




                                                       21
APPENDIX A – 2023 SEDIMENT REMOVAL AREA




                  A-1
                        APPENDIX B – DATA REVIEW

Appendix B, Table B-1




                                  B-1
Appendix B, Figure B-1




                         B-2
Appendix B, Figure B-2




                         B-3
Appendix B, Table B-2




                        B-4
Appendix B, Figure B-3




                         B-5
Appendix B, Figure B-4




                         B-6
Appendix B, Figure B-5




                         B-7
APPENDIX C – SITE PHOTOGRAPHS

           Carp Sample




      Channel Catfish Sample




               C-1
Smallmouth Bass Sample




  Clark Street Outfall




          C-2
“Do Not Eat” Signage




    Aquaponics




        C-3
Inside the Middle Sector Building




Inside the Middle Sector Building




              C-4
Outside the North Sector Building




Monitoring Wells N-8A and N-8B




              C-5
