988133




             Ten-Mile Drain Superfund Site
           St. Clair Shores, Macomb County, Michigan




                      Record of Decision




         United States Environmental Protection Agency
                            Region 5


                         January 2024
                                                                                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

  LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS ................................................................................... v
PART I: DECLARATION ............................................................................................... 1
  1.1 Site Name and Location ....................................................................................................... 1
  1.2 Statement of Basis and Purpose .......................................................................................... 1
  1.3 Assessment of Site ............................................................................................................... 2
  1.4 Description of Selected Remedy.......................................................................................... 2
  1.5 Statutory Determinations .................................................................................................... 4
  1.6 Data Certification Checklist ................................................................................................. 4
  1.7 Authorizing Signature ........................................................................................................... 5
PART II: DECISION SUMMARY ................................................................................. 6
  2.1       Site Name, Location, and Description ............................................................................. 6
  2.2       Site History and Enforcement Activities .......................................................................... 6
  2.3       Community Participation............................................................................................... 17
  2.4       Scope and Role of Operable Unit or Response Action .................................................. 17
  2.5       Site Characteristics ........................................................................................................ 18
  2.6       Current and Potential Future Land and Resource Uses ................................................ 24
  2.7       Summary of Site Risks ................................................................................................... 24
  2.8       Remedial Action Objectives........................................................................................... 28
  2.9       Description of Alternatives ............................................................................................ 30
     2.9.1 Description of Common Elements Among Remedial Alternatives ............................. 30
     2.9.2. Description of Remedial Alternatives ......................................................................... 33
     2.9.3 Discussion of Performance Standards for Remedial Alternatives .............................. 37
  2.10      Comparative Analysis of Alternatives............................................................................ 38
     2.10.1        Overall Protection of Human Health and the Environment .................................. 39
     2.10.2        Compliance with Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements ........... 41
     2.10.3        Long-term Effectiveness and Permanence ............................................................ 42
     2.10.4        Reduction of Toxicity, Mobility, or Volume of Contaminants through Treatment 43
     2.10.5        Short-term Effectiveness ....................................................................................... 43
     2.10.6        Implementability ................................................................................................... 44
     2.10.7        Cost ........................................................................................................................ 45


                                                                      ii
    2.10.8      State/Support Agency Acceptance ........................................................................ 45
    2.10.9     Community Acceptance ......................................................................................... 45
  2.11   Principal Threat Waste .................................................................................................. 45
  2.12   Selected Remedy ........................................................................................................... 46
  2.13   Statutory Determinations.............................................................................................. 51
  2.14   Documentation of Significant Changes ......................................................................... 52
PART III: RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY ............................................................. 53




                                                               iii
                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)


FIGURES

Figure 1     Ten-Mile Drain Site Location
Figure 2     Ten Mile Drain Storm Sewer System
Figure 3     Lange and Revere Street Canals (outfall)
Figure 4     Example of a Weir
Figure 5     Location of Weirs inside the TMD System
Figure 6     TMD Remaining CIPP Liner Location
Figure 7     Cross Section – TMD System
Figure 8     Roller/Wipe Sample Locations inside the TMD System
Figure 9     Ten Mile Drain – Current Conditions
Figure 10    PCB Sediment -All locations by Year (2012-2022)
Figure 11    PCB Snare – All locations by Year (2012-2022)
Figure 12    Conceptual Site Model – TMD System
Figure 13    Conceptual Site Model – Canal Property
Figure 14    Contaminant Transport Model – Stormwater Runoff to Old Marin Drain
Figure 15    Conceptual Site Model – Surface Soil
Figure 16    Ten Mile Drain Remediation Target Area
Figure 17    Alternative 2 – Cross Section
Figure 18    Alternative 2 – Conceptual Figure
Figure 19    Alternative 3 – Cross Section
Figure 20    Alternative 3 – Conceptual Figure
Figure 21    Alternative 4 – Conceptual Figure
Figure 22    Alternative 5 – Cross Section
Figure 23    Alternative 5 – Conceptual Figure
Figure 24    Alternative 5 – Alternative 5 Major Cost Items

TABLES

Table 1      Summary of Remedy Changes in 2016 ESD
Table 2      Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements
Table 3      Detailed Cost Estimate of Selected Remedy

APPENDICES

Appendix A   Administrative Record Index
Appendix B   Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy
             Concurrence Letter
Appendix C   Risk Assessment Tables and HHRA Figure



                                       iv
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

Algo      Algo Tool Company
AR        Administrative Record
ARARs     Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements
bgs       below ground surface
CDI       Chronic Daily Intake
CERCLA    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
CIP       Community Involvement Plan
CIPP      Cured-In-Place Pipe
COC       Contaminant of Concern

CSM       Conceptual Site Model

DCC       Direct Contact Criterion
DTE       DTE Energy
ECT       Environmental Consulting & Technology
ELCR      Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk
EPA       U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
ESD       Explanation of Significant Differences
FS        Feasibility Study
FYRs      Five-Year Reviews
HHRA      Human Health Risk Assessment
HI        Hazard Index
HQ        Hazard Quotient
ICs       Institutional Controls
IRIS      Integrated Risk Information System
MCPW      Macomb County Public Works Office
MDEQ      Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
MDHHS     Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (formerly Michigan
          Department of Community Health)
NCP       National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan
NPL       National Priorities List


                                        v
NRCS        Natural Resources Conservation Service
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PCBs        Polychlorinated Biphenyls
ppm         parts per million
PRGs        Preliminary Remediation Goals
PRPs        Potentially Responsible Parties
RAOs        Remedial Action Objectives
RCRA        Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RfD         reference dose
RI          Remedial Investigation
ROD         Record of Decision
SAI         Source Area Investigation
SLERA       Screening-Level Ecological Risk Assessment
TCRA        Time-Critical Removal Action
TDS         Triangle Development Services, LLC
TMD         Ten-Mile Drain
TMD System Ten Mile Drain Storm Sewer System
TSCA        Toxic Substances Control Act
UU/UE       Unlimited Use and Unrestricted Exposure




                                         vi
This Record of Decision (ROD) documents the fourth remedy selected for the Ten-Mile
Drain Superfund Site (TMD Site or Site) in St. Clair Shores, Macomb County, Michigan.
The ROD is organized in three sections: Part I contains the Declaration for the ROD, Part
II contains the Decision Summary, and Part III contains the Responsiveness Summary.

PART I: DECLARATION

This section summarizes the information presented in the ROD and includes the
authorizing signature of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 5
Superfund & Emergency Management Division Director.

1.1 Site Name and Location

Ten-Mile Drain Superfund Site
CERCLA SITE ID# MIN000510063
St. Clair Shores, Macomb County, Michigan

1.2 Statement of Basis and Purpose

This decision document presents the Selected Remedy for the PCB-impacted Ten Mile
Drain storm sewer system (TMD System) pipe, selected manhole vaults along with their
surrounding backfill materials for the Ten-Mile Drain Superfund Site. The Selected
Remedy was developed in accordance with the Comprehensive Environmental,
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §
9601 et seq. and, to the extent practicable, the National Oil and Hazardous Substances
Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP), 40 C.F.R. Part 300.

This decision document explains the factual and legal basis for selecting the remedy for
the Site. This decision is based on the Administrative Record (AR) file for this Site. The
AR Index, included as Appendix A, identifies each of the items comprising the AR upon
which the selection of the remedial action is based. The AR file is available for review at
the following locations or online at: www.epa.gov/superfund/ten-mile-drain

       St. Clair Shores Public Library               EPA Region 5 Records Center
       22500 E. 11 Mile Rd                           77 W. Jackson Blvd. (SR-7J)
       St. Clair Shores, IL 48081                    Chicago, IL 60604
       (586) 771-9020                                (312) 353-1063 Call for an appt.

The State of Michigan has concurred with the Selected Remedy. The State’s concurrence
letter is included in Appendix B.




                                             1
1.3 Assessment of Site

The response action selected in this ROD is necessary to protect the public health or
welfare or the environment from actual or threatened releases of hazardous substances
into the environment.

1.4 Description of Selected Remedy

The remedy selected in this fourth ROD for the TMD Site addresses the remaining
portion of the TMD System impacted by PCBs including the TMD pipe and selected
manhole vaults along with their surrounding backfill materials that pose an
unacceptable risk to human health and the environment. The major components of the
Selected Remedy include the following:
      Excavation and removal of six manhole vaults or catch basins, a segment of the
       TMD concrete pipe (approximately 2,110 linear feet) along with the surrounding
       PCB-impacted stone bedding and backfill materials, and proper off-site disposal
       of contaminated materials.

      Installation of new manhole vaults, piping, and stone bedding and backfill
       material. The TMD piping and vaults will be installed to match the depths of the
       removed piping and vaults and tied into the existing vaults and piping. Sewer
       lines that tie into the affected area of the drain will be reconnected to the new
       drain. The remainder of the excavation will be backfilled with native or clean
       backfill material and completed on the surface to preconstruction conditions.

      Pre-design studies to assess options for the Lakeland Street drain either to clean
       (power-washed or similar type cleaning method) or replacement of the section
       of the Lakeland drain and one catch basin on the western end of Lakeland Street,
       adjacent to the commercial property located on the corner of Harper Avenue
       and Lakeland Street.

      Stormwater diversion to keep water from backing up onto the streets during
       storm events and to keep the work area dry during construction. In addition, the
       TMD System will be dewatered and flow in the drain will be temporarily
       rerouted with pumps.

      A portable wastewater treatment plant to treat water entering the construction
       area prior to discharge back into the TMD System downgradient of the
       construction area.

      Vaults and piping outside the targeted remediation footprint containing low-
       level residual PCBs will be cleaned (power-washed or similar type cleaning
       method) after the drain is dewatered.


                                           2
      Pre-and post-monitoring plan to evaluate the effectiveness of the Selected
       Remedy and to ensure sediment remediation will be implemented with nominal
       risk of recontamination to canal sediments.

      After construction, deed restrictions may be required if sections of the TMD
       System that have PCB concentrations above the utility worker PRG (21 ppm)
       remain after the other remedial alternative components have been
       implemented.

The TMD Site is being addressed through a phased approach as a single operable unit.
The Selected Remedy in this ROD is the fourth remedial action at the Site. EPA
previously selected two source control interim remedial actions and a final response
action to address the PCB-impacted near-surface soils (residential and commercial
properties) at the Site, as follows:
   •   September 2011 Interim ROD – requires monthly/bi-monthly monitoring and
       removal of materials from behind the 17 weirs within the TMD System, to
       mitigate additional PCB contamination from reaching the nearby canals until a
       final cleanup plan is selected and implemented. This interim remedial action is
       currently ongoing until a final remedial action is selected and implemented at
       the Site.
   •   May 2014 Interim ROD and September 2016 Explanation of Significant
       Differences (ESD) – required the excavation, removal, and replacement of two
       specific vaulted manholes within the TMD System, the storm sewer pipe
       between the two manholes, and the surrounding impacted bedding and backfill
       materials. This interim remedial action permanently removed the most highly
       contaminated source materials that have been found from the TMD System. This
       interim remedial action is complete.

   •   September 2018 ROD – required excavation of near-surface soils with total PCB
       concentrations exceeding selected cleanup levels to a specific maximum depth
       (depending on property type: residential, commercial, and/or right-of-way/utility
       corridor), followed by off-site disposal at an appropriate landfill. This remedial
       action is currently ongoing and expected to last until November 2024.

The remedial action selected in this ROD is intended to be the final response action for
the PCB-impacted portion of the TMD System (upland of the Lange and Revere canals),
which includes the TMD pipe, selected manhole vaults, and their surrounding backfill
materials. As a next step, EPA intends to develop a Proposed Plan and ROD to select a
final remedy for the sediments in the Lange and Revere Street canals, which is expected
to be the last and final decision document for the TMD Site.




                                           3
1.5    Statutory Determinations

The Selected Remedy is protective of human health and the environment, complies with
federal and state requirements that are applicable or relevant and appropriate to the
remedial action (unless justified by a waiver), and is cost effective. The Selected Remedy
represents the maximum extent to which permanent solutions and alternative
treatment (or resource recovery) technologies can be utilized in a practicable manner.
The Selected Remedy does not satisfy the statutory preference for treatment as a
principal element of the remedy but does include removal and off-site disposal of PCB-
contaminated soil, which is permanent and irreversible.

The first interim remedy selected in September 2011 resulted in hazardous substances
remaining on-site above levels that do not allow for unlimited use and unrestricted
exposure (UU/UE), thereby triggering statutory five-year reviews (FYRs) to evaluate
whether the remedy is, or will be, protective of human health and the environment. The
first FYR was completed in April 2017, followed by the second FYR in March 2022.
Although this remedy will not result in hazardous substances, pollutants, or
contaminants remaining above levels that allow for UU/UE, EPA will conduct a third
statutory FYR to evaluate the previous interim remedies and the near-surface soil
remedy currently being implemented.

1.6    Data Certification Checklist

The following information is included in the Decision Summary section of this ROD.
Additional information can be found in the Administrative Record file for the TMD Site.
See Attachment A for the Administrative Record Index.


 Information Item                                                   Section(s) in ROD
 Contaminants of concern (COCs) and their respective
                                                                    2.5
 concentrations
 Baseline risk represented by the COCs                              2.7
 Cleanup levels established for the COCs and the basis for these
                                                                 2.8
 levels
 How source materials constituting principal threats are
                                                                 2.11, 2.13
 addressed
 Current and reasonably anticipated future land use assumptions
 and current and potential future beneficial uses of groundwater 2.6, 2.7, 2.12
 used in the baseline risk assessment and ROD

 Potential land and groundwater use that will be available at the
                                                                    2.6, 2.7, 2.12
 Site as a result of the Selected Remedy



                                            4
 Estimated capital, annual operation and maintenance (O&M),
 and total present worth costs, discount rate, and the number of    2.9, 2.10.7, 2.12
 years over which the remedy cost estimates are projected

 Key factor(s) that led to selecting the remedy (i.e., describe how
 the Selected Remedy provides the best balance of tradeoffs
 with respect to the balancing and modifying criteria,              2.10, 2.12
 highlighting criteria key to the decision)



1.7    Authorizing Signature

EPA, as the lead agency for the Ten-Mile Drain Superfund Site, formally authorizes this
ROD.
                                     1/22/2024



X     Douglas Ballotti
Douglas Ballotti, Director
Superfund & Emergency Management Division
Signed by: DOUGLAS BALLOTTI




                                            5
PART II: DECISION SUMMARY
2.1    Site Name, Location, and Description

The TMD Site (CERCLIS ID MIN000510063) is located northeast of the City of Detroit and
on the western shores of Lake St. Clair in St. Clair Shores, Macomb County, Michigan
(see Figure 1). As of 2021, St. Clair Shores had an estimated total population of 58,200.

The TMD Site includes a mixed commercial/residential area near the intersection of Bon
Brae Street and Harper Avenue. The Site also includes a portion of the TMD System (see
Figure 2), which consists of concrete storm sewer pipes and backfill material
surrounding the pipes in a utility corridor as deep as fifteen feet below ground surface
(bgs). The Site is known to encompass several blocks where PCBs have been found in the
TMD System in significant concentrations, as well as areas to which the historical PCB
release from the commercial property (on the corner of Harper Avenue and Lakeland
Street) is known to have migrated. There is not an ongoing release of PCBs from the
commercial property to the TMD System on the corner of Harper Avenue and Lakeland
Street. The TMD storm sewer system empties into two canals - the Lange and Revere
Street canals – which are connected to Lake St. Clair. The canals, which provide
recreational boating access to Lake St. Clair for approximately 125 homes, are private
property and are used for recreational boating, swimming, and fishing (Figure 3).

EPA conducted an Environmental Justice Screen for the Site using EJScreen version 2.11
available at https://www.epa.gov/ejscreen. The EJ index percentiles for nearly all the
environmental and demographic indicators for the area immediately adjacent to the
Site are below the 80th percentile for both the state and nation; therefore, the results
suggest a low potential that there would be communities with environmental justice
concerns living immediately adjacent to the area being remediated.

EPA is the lead agency for the Site and the Michigan Department of Environment, Great
Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) serves as the support agency. To date, EPA has not identified
any potentially responsible parties (PRPs). The selected remedy is expected to be
funded through federal Remedial Action funding with a 10% state cost share.

2.2    Site History and Enforcement Activities

Several investigations, removal actions, and interim remedial actions have taken place
since PCBs were first discovered at the TMD Site in 2001. The following sections
summarize the Site’s history with a focus on the various removal, remedial, and
associated Site investigations related to the TMD System and the Lange and Revere
Street canals. Documents contained in the Administrative Record file for the Site
provide greater detail regarding previous investigation and response actions.




                                            6
In July 2001, sediment samples were collected by the Macomb County Public Works
Office (MCPW) as part of a permit application process for a proposed dredging project in
the Lange and Revere Street canals. The analytical results were submitted to the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, who then notified EGLE based on the elevated levels of PCBs
in sediment. In December 2001, EGLE investigated the TMD System and confirmed there
was an upstream source of PCB contamination in the drain. As a result of EGLE's
investigation, MCPW sampled and confirmed the presence of PCBs in both the Lange
and Revere Street canals and TMD System.

EPA’s removal program initiated a time-critical removal action (TCRA) at the Site in
August 2002 and completed the work in July 2004. During the removal action, high
concentrations of PCB-contaminated sediments were removed from inside the TMD
System, along with PCB- contaminated sediments ranging from 10 parts per million
(ppm) to 4,900 ppm in a portion of both the Lange and Revere Street canals and the
connecting channel between these canals. All waste was transported for disposal at
approved off-site facilities. Specifically, the following activities were completed:

      Development and implementation of a site-specific Health and Safety Plan and
       Air Monitoring Plan;

      Development and implementation of a Site Security Plan including guard
       services, installation of signs on gates and temporary fencing;

      Dewatering of the TMD storm sewer system and removal of all sediments via
       confined space entry and high-pressure jet-vacuum truck;

      Construction of an on-site water treatment system and treatment of
       approximately 2.5 million gallons of water. Water treatment system operations
       included the dewatering of the Wahby Park Pond and sampling of the sediments;

      Installation of sheet piling to create excavation cells, and replacement of any
       sections of sea walls that failed after dewatering due to removal activities;

      Excavation of all sediments with PCB concentrations exceeding 10 parts per
       million (ppm) from the Revere Street canal and the connecting channel between
       the Lange and Revere Street canals, with the goal of achieving an average
       sediment concentration of 1 ppm;

      Development and implementation of a confirmation sampling plan during the
       excavation phase of the project. In the event that the confirmatory sampling
       demonstrated that the 1 ppm goal was not met, additional excavation and
       confirmatory sampling was required;




                                            7
      Off-site disposal of all PCB-contaminated sediments at an EPA-approved disposal
       facility in accordance with the EPA Off-Site Rule (40 C.F.R. § 300.440); and

      Restoration of any areas damaged due to EPA's actions.

In total, EPA disposed of approximately 5,900 tons of PCB-contaminated materials and
18,000 tons of non-hazardous materials. The on-site water treatment plant was also
constructed to treat contaminated water removed from the sediment. Post-removal site
controls were agreed to by MCPW. In April 2004, MCPW completed the re-cleaning of
the drain and the outfall area where the drain empties into the canals.

In June 2004, MCPW initiated quarterly PCB sampling in the drain. Based on the results,
PCBs were still present at levels as high as 1.3 ppm in the drain water. At the time, such
concentrations were believed to be residual contamination. In July 2004, MCPW
initiated a Phase I-type assessment of the Harper Avenue and Bon Brae Street area. In
September 2004, MCPW completed the second round of quarterly PCB sampling and
detected PCBs in sediment at the outfall of the drain with concentrations up to 770
ppm. In December 2004, MCPW conducted the third round of PCB sampling in the drain
and detected PCB concentrations as high as 17,000 ppm. After the third round of
sampling, MCPW initiated soil boring sampling of the backfill surrounding the drain to
attempt to determine if a source of PCBs was re-contaminating the drain. Results
indicated that PCBs were present in backfill surrounding the drain at levels as high as
41,000 ppm. In January 2005, MCPW collected sediment samples from inside the drain
near the intersection of Harper Avenue and Bon Brae Street and detected PCBs at
extremely high concentrations, up to 200,000 ppm.

In May 2005, EPA’s removal program and EGLE installed 64 additional soil borings in the
suspected source area to attempt to better define the extent of PCB contamination.
PCBs were detected in the sand and gravel backfill surrounding the drain and appeared
centered in the area near the intersection of Harper Avenue and Bon Brae Street. The
May 2005 investigation also revealed one surface soil area contaminated with PCBs at
approximately 800 ppm. In the spring and summer of 2006, EPA conducted another
removal action to address the high PCB surface soil and the sediments concentrations
inside the drain. Specifically, the following activities were also completed:
              Removal and restoration of PCB-contaminated shallow surface soils;
              Repair of sea walls;
              Removal of sediment from a portion of the sewer system;
              Installation of monitoring wells and a large sediment trap to collect
               contaminated sediment in the drain at the outfall; and




                                            8
              Installation of a cured-in-place pipe (CIPP) liner in a portion of the sewers
               along Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue to attempt to mitigate PCB
               infiltration from the backfill materials into the sewers.

Supplemental investigations were conducted in parallel to the removal action activities
in order to better characterize the Site. EPA sampled 15 residential properties along the
Lange and Revere Street canals to assess whether using water from the canals for
irrigation of lawns or gardens may have caused yards to be contaminated with PCBs.

The City of St. Clair Shores conducted further investigations and cleanup efforts from
2007 to 2009 and hired Environmental Consulting & Technology (ECT) as its contractor for
this work. Four main tasks were performed:

          Environmental sampling to monitor the conditions in and around the drain;
          Installation and maintenance of monitoring wells along the drain;
          Cleaning contaminated sediment from portions of the drain; and
          Installation of two weirs within the drain to slow the migration of PCBs to the
           canals and Lake St. Clair. (Weirs are half-circle metal structures
           approximately two feet high that act like small dams to collect PCB oil and
           contaminated sediment before the contaminants move into the canals.)
           Figure 4 displays an example of a weir.
In late 2009, ECT discovered oil inside the CIPP-lined portion of the sewer that was
composed of more than 80 percent PCBs (i.e., more than 800,000 ppm). The City asked
for assistance from EPA in addressing this contamination within the drain. EPA and the
City identified an immediate need to eliminate the potential for PCBs to migrate down
the storm sewer and impact the Lange and Revere Street canals. Therefore, in March
2010, EPA mobilized its removal action contractors to the Site to initiate the TCRA
activities, which included the following:

          Dewatering and high-pressure jet-vacuuming of the sewer along Bon Brae
           Street and down Harper and Jefferson Avenues to remove PCB oil and
           sediment;
          Stabilization, transportation, and off-site disposal of the PCB-contaminated
           materials;
          Installation of temporary weir structures in 15 manhole locations to allow
           sediment collection points. The 15 weirs joined the two weirs previously
           installed in the drain system along Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue by the
           City of St. Clair Shores. Figure 5 displays weir location in the TMD System;
           and




                                             9
          A geophysical survey of the area near the sewer where contamination was
           present, and advancement of soil borings and collection of soil samples from
           suspected source areas.

Based on subsequent environmental sampling results collected by the city, EPA
conducted another removal action at the Site in late February 2011 to remove PCB oil
from the drain. Absorbent snares were used to wipe the bottom of the drain where oil
collected upstream of the weir, these pom-like snares served as method to remove the
oil from inside the drainage system. A total of six of the seventeen weir locations
required cleanout and one 55-gallon drum of soiled absorbent snares was collected for
disposal. Clean snares were then attached to weighted chains and left directly
upgradient of selected weirs to allow any new incoming oil to collect on them and to
support future sample collection and removal efforts. Because PCB oil continued to
infiltrate the drain and as part of their environmental monitoring activities, in April 2011
the City inspected the absorbent snares, removed soiled snares, and placed clean snares
behind the weirs where needed.

EGLE conducted a Site investigation in July 2008 to document and obtain sufficient data
to support listing the Site on the National Priorities List (NPL). EPA proposed the Site for
the NPL in March 2010 and finalized the Site listing on the NPL in September 2010.

In April 2011, EPA began its Source Area Investigation (SAI) fieldwork to find the source
of the high PCB concentrations that were continuing to infiltrate the TMD storm sewer
system. The investigation focused on the sanitary sewer, gas, and water main utility
corridors that crossed the TMD System utility corridor, which potentially could provide
preferential pathways for PCB contamination to migrate into the drain. Utility lines are
typically set in corridors backfilled with stone and other “loose” materials through which
contamination (e.g., PCBs) could easily migrate. The native materials at the TMD Site are
generally very tight clays, which do not allow easy migration of contamination. The
conclusions of the SAI are the basis for the development of the Site’s Conceptual Site
Model (CSM), understanding how contamination at the Site has moved, and understanding
what impacts such movement may have had. The CSM is further discussed and visually
depicted under the Site Characteristics portion of this ROD and in Figure 12 and 13. The
2012 SAI Report concluded the following:

      Based on low concentrations in samples collected from the water main and
       sanitary sewer lines intersecting the TMD utility corridor neither the water main
       nor the sanitary sewer utility lines are conduits for migration of PCBs or the cause
       for recontamination to the TMD drainage system.

      Historical release(s) into the TMD System likely have resulted in secondary source
       areas of PCBs within the TMD utility corridor backfill material. The bottoms of the
       manhole vault structures are lower in elevation than the concrete pipe portions of



                                             10
       the TMD System. PCBs, which are denser than water, appear to have accumulated
       around the bottom of the four vaults (J01, M7179, M4335, and M7183).

      The movement of water in and out of the TMD utility corridor through the joints in
       the piping along Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue appear to be causing the PCB
       oil that has accumulated at the bottom of the identified vaults to continue to re-
       enter the drain.

      Other source areas beyond the impacted fill around selected TMD vaults were not
       identified during the SAI. Based on the widespread levels of PCBs in all depth
       intervals along Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue, between Bon Brae and
       Lakeland Streets, it appears that a surficial spill or fill materials contaminated with
       PCBs concentrations capable of contaminating the TMD backfill in the vicinity of
       Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue may have been the original source of the PCB
       contamination.

In May 2011, the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS,
formerly Michigan Department of Community Health) issued a “do not eat” advisory for
fish taken from the Lange and Revere Street canals. In Lake St. Clair, there is a “Special
Notice” area within two miles of the Lange and Revere canals, therefore some of the Eat
Safe Fish guidelines for the Special Notice area are more restrictive than the rest of Lake
St. Clair due to PCBs being elevated in several fish species that were sampled in the lake
near the canals. Information about these guidelines can be accessed at
www.michigan.gov/eatsafefish, once on the MDHHS Eat Safe Fish Program website
navigate to the Eat Safe Fish Guide for Southeast Michigan for list of species and fish
consumption restrictions on Lake St. Clair, Lange and Revere canals and the Special
Notice area. PCBs are a concern because they concentrate in the environment and the
food chain, resulting in health hazards to humans, fish, and wildlife.

In August 2011, EPA designed and conducted a sediment sampling project in the Lange
and Revere Street canals to characterize the contamination in the canals and provide
information to explain the elevated PCB levels found in fish. (EGLE caught and sampled
fish in the canals in April 2010.) Approximately 100 samples collected from the surface
of the sediments and 40 samples collected from deeper sediments were analyzed for
PCBs by an EPA mobile laboratory. Based on the findings of the 2011 sediment sampling
event, the highest PCB concentrations (100 ppm to 570 ppm) are located near the
outfall of the TMD storm sewer system, the western ends of the canals. Overall, EPA
found that PCB concentrations decrease with depth and distance from the outfall. PCB
concentrations are significantly lower in the deeper, clay sediment materials than the
surficial, silty sediment materials. EPA found the highest PCB concentrations near the
outfall of the TMD pipe, which indicates that PCBs continued to discharge out of the
TMD System into the Lange and Revere Street canals following the 2002-2004 removal
action that excavated contaminated sediments from the canals.



                                             11
In April 2013, EPA began its Sitewide remedial investigation (RI) field work. During the
RI, EPA collected samples from all areas potentially impacted by the Site, including soils
from residential and commercial properties along the TMD storm sewer drain and along
the Lange and Revere canals.

In August 2015, additional RI sampling was conducted focusing on the former Martin
Drain (also known as the Old Martin Drain). The Martin Drain was formerly an open,
above-ground storm water drain. Historical Macomb County drain maps indicate the
former Martin Drain had flowed through the investigation area and discharged into the
Rio Vista Canal located approximately three-quarters of a mile northeast of the Lange
and Revere Street canals. Based on historical information, it appears that the former
Martin Drain was backfilled after the TMD storm sewer was constructed in the mid-
1960s. The objective of the sampling was to determine if the former Martin Drain was
previously a migration pathway for PCB contamination. Based on the overall sample
results, EPA determined that the former Martin Drain was likely a limited historical
pathway for PCB migration.

Previous Response Actions

Since the Site was placed on the NPL in 2010, the following response actions have
occurred.

      2011 Interim ROD – On September 27, 2011, EPA issued the first interim ROD to
       address the high concentrations of PCB oil and contaminated sediments that
       continued to accumulate behind the 17 weirs in the TMD System and in the
       sediment trap at the outfall. This interim action is ongoing.

           o In June 2019, EPA reduced frequency of these activities from monthly to
             every other month, bimonthly. The activities include monitoring, placing
             absorbent snares to absorb PCB-impacted oil and slow or stop the
             movement of the oil, and periodic removal and disposal of PCB-saturated
             snares and sediments, if present. In addition, utility trench water data is
             collected from two monitoring wells, one located adjacent to each of the
             vaulted manhole structures (M7179 and J01) that were installed in 2015.

      2014 Interim ROD – On May 16, 2014, EPA issued a second interim ROD to
       address the highly-impacted backfill and bedding materials at two vaulted
       manhole locations (M7179 and J01) in the TMD System. EPA implemented the
       second interim remedial action from June through December 2015 and
       conducted Site restoration activities in May and June 2016.

           o The TMD System was dewatered during implementation of the interim
             remedy, and at the end of the construction work a total 2,241.57 tons of
             Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) soil and 36,000 gallons of TSCA water
             was removed from the system and transported off-site for disposal. TSCA


                                            12
              authority regulates the reporting, record-keeping and testing
              requirements and restrictions related to PCBs. During the removal of the
              vaulted manhole at location M7179, PCB-containing oil was observed
              flowing from the storm sewer pipe – specifically from the space between
              the pipe and the CIPP liner – into the M7179 excavation. Figure 6 depicts
              the location of the CIPP liner inside the TMD System. This prompted EPA
              to expand the remedial action to include the removal and replacement of
              the entire 120-foot length of pipe beneath Harper Avenue between the
              two manhole vaults, to remove any additional PCB-contaminated oil
              contained within and beneath that length of pipe as displayed on Figure
              7. EPA documented this change and others in a 2016 Explanation of
              Significant Differences (ESD).

      2018 Near-Surface Soils ROD – On September 24, 2018, EPA issued a ROD to
       address PCB-contamination of near-surface soils on residential yards, utility
       corridors/rights-of-way, and commercial properties. In 2019 and 2020, EPA
       completed predesign investigation and developed approximately 52 property
       designs for selected residential and commercial properties exceeding cleanup
       criteria. Additional predesign investigation activities are required at properties
       where access for sampling was not obtained, or where nearby yard areas exceed
       cleanup criteria, and the extents may not be fully defined. This remedy began in
       the summer of 2023 and is expected to last until fall of 2024.

      2020 TCRA - In 2020, EPA conducted a TCRA at a total of 8 properties: two
       residential yards and six rights-of-way with one right-of-way in front of a
       commercial property located on the northeast corner of Harper Avenue and Bon
       Brae Street. PCBs were found in the soil at or near the surface with highly
       elevated concentrations (up to 120 ppm), exceeding the EPA removal
       management level of 23 ppm for Aroclor 1248 and/or 3.5 ppm for Aroclor 1254.
       Approximately 501 tons of contaminated soil was removed and disposed of off-
       site.

2014 Interim ROD

Sampling conducted during the RI and documented in EPA’s 2012 SAI Report showed
high PCB concentrations in the backfill and bedding materials adjacent to vaulted
manholes M7179 (up to 66,000 ppm) and J01 (up to 39,000 ppm). EPA believed the
contamination at these locations was serving as a major continuing source of PCBs to
the rest of the TMD System and the Lange and Revere Street canals. EPA established the
following Remedial Action Objective (RAO) for the second interim remedial action:

      Mitigate the migration of PCB contamination and prevent further environmental
       degradation of the Lange and Revere Street canal sediments by reducing the



                                           13
       infiltration of PCB oil, contaminated utility trench water, and impacted backfill
       and vault bedding materials into the TMD storm sewer pipe.

Similar to the 2011 Interim ROD, the interim remedial action selected in the 2014
Interim ROD was intended to serve as an interim source control measure to reduce the
volume of PCBs discharging to the canals. The 2014 Interim ROD selected the following
remedy components:

      Excavation and removal of the vaulted manholes and surrounding impacted
       backfill materials at M7179 and J01, and proper off-site disposal of the
       contaminated materials;
      Dewatering of the vaulted manholes and temporary rerouting of the flow in the
       TMD System with pumps prior to excavation work;
      Installation of two new vaulted manholes at M7179 and J01, including
       replacement of the stone bedding and backfill materials;
      Installation of a flexible synthetic liner on the open excavation surfaces prior to
       installation of the new vaulted manholes, to separate the existing soils from the
       new clean bedding and backfill materials;
      After installation of the new vaulted manholes, affixing a flexible synthetic liner
       to the outside of each new manhole vault and the piping using batten strips;
      Treatment of excavated impacted soils through solidification prior to disposal by
       mixing a reagent (cement kiln dust) to convert the sludge to a granular solid and
       improve the handling characteristics of the waste;
      Installation of two monitoring and recovery wells on either side of the two new
       vaulted manholes for a total of four monitoring and recovery wells;
      Quarterly monitoring of both the utility trench water outside the drain through
       the monitoring and recovery wells and the water inside the drain, and extraction
       of PCB oil using the monitoring and recovery wells if buildup of oil occurs against
       the new liners of the replaced vaulted manholes; and
      Use of institutional controls (ICs) to prevent actions that compromise the
       remedy. Institutional controls will include both deed restrictions and assigning
       permit restrictions to accompany the deed restrictions. Deed restrictions are
       necessary to restrict land use in order to ensure that the new vaults and liners
       and clean backfill are not compromised during excavation or other intrusive
       activities causing contaminated media from the adjacent pipe runs to enter the
       clean backfill and/or new vault.

The 2014 Interim ROD did not include numeric cleanup standards for soil or any other
media since the objective was an interim source control measure. Instead, the 2014
Interim ROD specified the performance standards such as visual standards, depth


                                            14
standards based on lithological characteristics and lateral-distance standards – i.e.,
excavation of impacted materials located laterally from the vaulted manholes for a
minimum of 5 feet in each direction outside the vaulted manholes for the selected
remedial action.

2016 ESD

In 2015, EPA determined that an ESD was appropriate because the remedial activities at
the Site differed significantly in scope, performance or cost from the selected remedy in
the 2014 Interim ROD, but the change did not fundamentally alter the selected remedy.
The 2014 Interim ROD selected the removal and replacement of two manholes in the
TMD System (M7179 and J01) along with the impacted bedding and backfill materials.
During the excavation of M7179, PCB-containing oil was observed flowing from between
the CIPP liner that was installed in 2006 and the 48-inch diameter concrete pipe that
extends under Harper Avenue (see Figure 7). Based on this development and to prevent
recontamination of areas that had just been cleaned up, EPA expanded the interim
action to include removal and replacement of the 120-foot length pipe between
manholes M7179 and J01. The table below compares the components selected in the
2014 Interim ROD to the remedial action as implemented in 2015 and documented in
the 2016 ESD.


           Remedy Component in                         Change in Remedy as Implemented,
             2014 Interim ROD                                Documented in 2016 ESD
 [Removal of Reinforced Concrete Pipe was       The 120-foot length of pipe beneath Harper
 not included in the ROD-selected remedy]       Avenue between vaulted manholes M7179 and
                                                J01, along with underlying materials, was
                                                removed and replaced. See Figure 7.
 After installation of the new vaulted          After installation of the new vaulted manholes, a
 manholes, a flexible synthetic liner will be   spray-on epoxy liner was installed on the interior
 affixed to the outside of each new             of each new manhole vault and the piping.
 manhole vault and the piping using batten
 strips.
 Installation of two monitoring and             One monitoring and recovery well was installed
 recovery wells on either side of the two       adjacent to each of the new vaulted manhole
 new vaulted manholes for a total of four       structures for a total of two monitoring and
 monitoring and recovery wells.                 recovery wells.
 [Installation of anti-seep collars were not    Two anti-seep collars were installed to prevent
 included in the ROD-selected remedy]           subsurface migration of PCB contamination back
                                                into this portion of the TMD storm sewer
                                                system.
 [On-site treatment of excavation water         An on-site carbon filter filtration system was
 was not listed as an element of the ROD-       used to treat large volumes of PCB-
 selected remedy]                               contaminated water pumped from the




                                                15
          Remedy Component in                     Change in Remedy as Implemented,
            2014 Interim ROD                           Documented in 2016 ESD
                                            excavation before discharge back to the storm
                                            sewer.
Table 1: Summary of Remedy Changes in 2016 ESD

Enforcement Activities

Between 2002 and 2005, EPA conducted a civil investigation jointly with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and the Macomb County Sheriff’s Department. The investigation
included comprehensive door-to-door interviews of businesses and residences in the
area. In addition, city and county building and zoning records were analyzed for any
mention of a business entity that might have used PCBs in or near the contaminated
area. Neither effort produced any evidence linking a PRP to the PCB contamination.

As part of its PRP search activities, EPA sent an information request letter to DTE Energy
(DTE) in October 2003. EPA sent a follow-up information request letter to DTE in May
2011.

Based on the results of the source area investigation and other RI activities, EPA
determined that the commercial property, located near the intersection of Harper
Avenue and Lakeland Street, was the likely area where the historical PCB release
occurred. EPA performed a title search to determine which commercial businesses
operated there from 1940 to the present. The following is a summary of the companies
that operated or owned the commercial property:
   •   In the 1940s, C&G Electrical Maintenance Services owned and operated the
       property.
   •   From 1973 to 1983, Henry’s Cleaners was located on a portion of property.
   •   In the 1970s, the property was also operated by Algo Tool Co. (Algo) and G&D
       Tool & Automation Company, Inc., known as G&D Tool, which produced
       specialty dies and tools, die sets, jigs and fixtures, and industrial molds. Algo was
       incorporated in Michigan in October 1965 and dissolved in March 1980. The
       owners of Algo are both deceased.
   •   From 1989 to 2009, J.M Olson and Trustees, a construction and development
       company, owned the commercial property and also used the building on that
       property as office space.
   •   Since 2009, the commercial property is owned by Triangle Development
       Services, LLC (TDS) and currently occupied by a multi-tenant medical building.

In 2014, EPA sent information request letters to Algo and G&D Tool’s former owner,
employees, president, and program manager inquiring about the use of PCBs at this


                                            16
property. In 2017, EPA sent information request letters to J.M. Olson and TDS, the most
recent commercial property owners, inquiring about business operations, building, and
parking lot renovations, and any historic PCB release(s). None of the responses provided
information about leaks, spills, or mishandling of materials or the use or presence of
PCBs at the property.

In 2018, EPA expanded the PRP search with a review of aerial photography and
historical records at local libraries.

2.3    Community Participation

The Proposed Plan and other relevant and supporting documents for this ROD, including
the RI and FS Reports were made available to the public in June 2023. Copies of all the
documents supporting this remedy outlined in the Proposed Plan and contained in the
AR file were made available to the public in the following ways: electronically at the St.
Clair Shores Library, where an information repository has been set up, and online at
EPA’s website for the TMD Site.

A notice of the availability of these documents and the start of the 30-day public
comment period on the Proposed Plan was published in the St. Clair Shores Sentinel, a
weekly newspaper, on June 21, 2023, and a fact sheet on the Proposed Plan was mailed
out to the Site mailing list. The public comment period on the Proposed Plan ran from
June 12 to July 22, 2023. EPA held a public meeting on June 22, 2023, in St. Clair Shores,
Michigan, to present information and answer questions about the remedial alternatives,
as well as to solicit community input on the proposed alternatives. Members of the
public were advised that they could submit comments on the Proposed Plan in a
number of ways: 1) complete and mail in the comment form attached to the fact sheet;
2) submit a written comment via email to EPA Community Involvement Coordinator
Caitlin McIntyre at mcintyre.caitlin@epa.gov; 3) use the comment form that was online
at www.epa.gov/superfund/ten-mile-drain.

EPA’s responses to the comments received during the public comment period are
included in the Responsiveness Summary, which is included as Part III of this ROD.

2.4    Scope and Role of Operable Unit or Response Action

EPA is managing the contamination at the TMD Site through a phased approach. A
phased approach to Site cleanup is appropriate when Site characterization is not yet
completed, or when Site data are not sufficient to develop and evaluate cleanup
alternatives to address risks posed by the entire Site, but when action clearly needs to
be taken to protect human health and the environment at a portion of the Site or to
prevent further migration of contaminants or further environmental degradation.




                                            17
EPA issued interim RODs in September 2011 and May 2014, followed by the September
2016 ESD, which addressed the removal of source materials from the TMD System.
These interim source control measures were selected to mitigate the further migration
of PCB contamination to the canals, while EPA continues the remedial process to select
and implement final long-term remedial actions at the Site. To date, the TMD Site has
not been divided into separate operable units. In September 2018, EPA issued a ROD
selecting a third remedial action at the Site to address PCB contamination in near-
surface soils at residential yards, right-of-way/utility corridors, and commercial
properties. This action was intended to be the final response action for the near-surface
soils portion of the TMD Site.

This ROD selects a fourth remedial action at the TMD Site to address the remaining
portion of the TMD System impacted by PCBs, including the TMD pipe, vaulted
manholes along with their surrounding backfill materials serving as a secondary source
and pose an unacceptable risk to human health and the environment. This response
action does not address the PCB impacted sediments of the Lange and Revere Street
canals. EPA intends to develop a Proposed Plan and ROD to select a sediment remedy in
the future.

2.5    Site Characteristics

This section of the ROD summarizes the current information available about Site
characteristics with an emphasis on the TMD System. A Human Health Risk Assessment
(HHRA) and a Screening-Level Ecological Risk Assessment (SLERA) were conducted as
part of the RI. These investigations identified PCBs as the COC that poses potential risks
to human health and environment. The significant findings and conclusions from the
Site characterization activities completed during the RI are summarized below, and
additional details are provided in the Final 2016 RI Report.

Physical Characteristics

The TMD Site is located 13 miles northeast of downtown Detroit in St. Clair Shores,
Michigan. The Site includes a portion of the TMD storm sewer system near the
intersection of Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue where elevated levels of PCBs have
been documented in the drain and the soil surrounding the drain since 2001. The TMD
storm sewer, located approximately 15 feet bgs, is a network of storm sewers and catch
basins constructed in 1967 that collect and manage storm water runoff. The storm
sewer pipe is an average of 6 feet wide (8 feet wide at the outfall) and empties into the
Lange and Revere Street canals, which are connected to Lake St. Clair.

Ten-Mile Drain Storm Sewer System

The TMD System is constructed with jointed reinforced concrete pipe, primarily 4 feet.
The top of the TMD reinforced concrete pipe ranges in depth from 4 to 8 feet bgs. Soil


                                            18
boring collected within the TMD utility corridor appears to have been backfilled with
washed sand and pea gravel to the depths of 12 to 18 feet bgs.

Manhole Vaults

Manhole vaults and smaller manholes catch basins that collect stormwater from streets
during storm events and convey the water to the main portion of the TMD System.
Figure 8 depicts the location of manholes throughout the TMD System. Manhole vaults
or vaulted manholes are cast-in-place concrete, or precast concrete, and are finished to
surface grade with bricks. The bases of the manhole vault structures are lower in
elevation than the concrete pipe portion of the TMD System, which creates a low point
for contaminants and water to accumulate around the base of the manhole vaults
(CH2M 2012). Additionally, the water level in the manhole vaults fluctuates as the water
level within TMD rises and falls ranging between 5 and 8 bgs on average.


Geology

Native soils surrounding the TMD utility corridor are primarily fine-grained deposits with
interbedded lenses of coarser grained materials. Geological materials around the drain
are comprised of sand, clay, silty clay, sandy clay, and clayey sand zones extending to a
depth of approximately 15 feet. In general, the TMD utility corridor is set within the
native clay soils and is comprised of an enclosed concrete storm sewer system set within
fill materials of varying composition.

Hydrogeology

Monitoring wells were installed during the 2005 removal investigation activities and as
part of the City of St. Clair Shores’ environmental monitoring plans. Based on the results
of the SAI and previous investigations, no groundwater aquifer or any continuous seams
of moderate to highly transmittable soil are present within 20 feet of ground surface
within the TMD System. The native uniformed soils of the area (dense clay) are an
aquitard for any potential deeper aquifer that may be present.

Storm Drain Hydraulic

There is minimal topographic relief throughout the Site. Residential and commercial
properties are contoured to direct stormwater runoff toward the street or parking lots
where the stormwater enters catch basins that connect to the TMD storm sewer
system. Water entering the TMD System discharges only into the Lange and Revere
Street canals and subsequently into Lake St. Clair. The bottom of the drain is below the
average surface water elevation of Lake St. Clair. The outfall into the Lange Street canal
is typically partially submerged; therefore, water is continually present within the TMD
System. Wind direction causes water-level fluctuations (seiches) along the shoreline of


                                            19
Lake St. Clair. The changes in lake levels directly affect water levels within the drain.
Under normal conditions, water within the TMD System flows from inland areas to the
east, toward the Lange and Revere Street canals. However, onshore winds cause water
levels to increase in the canals, resulting in a reversal of water flow in the TMD System
from the canals upstream.
The aged seal material in the TMD jointed concrete construction allows water to pass
through the joints of the drain, causing both infiltration and exfiltration of water
between the TMD backfill materials and the pipe. Water levels in the highly transmissive
sand and gravel backfill within the TMD utility corridor equalize with the water levels
inside the drain. The water level within the TMD backfill materials averages between 5
and 8 feet bgs.
Groundwater
Soil borings advanced at the Site to a depth of 35 feet bgs did not encounter groundwater.
The shallowest aquifer in the vicinity of the Site is located approximately 80 feet bgs.
Therefore, groundwater is not a medium of concern at the Site.

Contaminants of Concern

PCBs are the only COC associated with the TMD Site. PCBs are present in the soil,
sediment, and surface water at the TMD Site, which includes the soil, backfill materials,
and utility trench water immediately surrounding the TMD pipe in the utility corridor,
the sediments in the Lange and Revere Street Canals and near-surface soils on
residential and commercial properties.

PCBs are a group of fabricated chemicals originally used in industrial processes and
products such as coolants and lubricants. In 1977, PCB production was banned in the
United States, but PCB mixtures remain in old electrical equipment and other items, and
there is also substantial PCB contamination in landfills and rivers. EPA considers PCBs as
possible cancer-causing chemicals. These chemicals can pose potential health risks
through eating PCB-contaminated food, directly contacting PCB-contaminated soil or
water, or breathing PCB-contaminated air or airborne particles. One of the main
exposure pathways of concern at sites with PCB contamination in sediments is human
ingestion of PCB-contaminated fish.

Nature and Extent of Contamination

The following details the results of SAI and RI sampling as well as detailing the current
conditions in the TMD System, after the two response actions.

TMD Utility Corridor Soils
The impacted backfill in the TMD System was delineated during the SAI and RI. The
primary findings of the 2012 SAI Report indicate that soils within the TMD corridor from

                                            20
10- to 20-feet below ground surface (bgs) consistently contain the highest
concentrations of PCBs at the Site. Out of 81 samples collected from this depth interval
within the TMD corridor, fifty samples did not exceed 1ppm, ten samples had PCB
concentrations between 1 ppm and 10 ppm, and twenty-one samples contained greater
than 10 ppm PCBs. PCBs were found in all depth intervals of the backfill materials near
the intersection of Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue, between Bon Brae and Lakeland
Streets.
The highest concentrations of PCBs were found in backfill adjoining selected vaulted
manholes. During investigation activities, an oily sheen was observed on samples
collected adjacent to four manhole vaults (M7179, J01, M4335, and M7183) the
locations of these vaults depicted on Figure 5 & 9. PCBs in soil (10 to 20 feet bgs)
exceeded 1,000 ppm in the boreholes installed adjacent to these four vaulted manholes
M7179 (66,000 ppm); J01 (39,000 ppm); M4335 (1,500 ppm); and M7183 (3,500 ppm).
The PCB-impacted vaults (M7179 and J01) were addressed during the second interim
action in 2014.
It is important to note that results of the SAI Report, indicated only very low PCB
concentrations were found in the backfill materials of the other utility corridors, ruling
out the sanitary sewer, gas, and water main utility corridors as a source or conduit for
the high PCB concentrations found at the TMD Site.

PCB Oil Between the CIPP Liner and TMD Pipe
As discussed earlier under Site History Section of this ROD, in 2006 EPA installed a CIPP
liner (approximately 1,000 feet) inside a portion of the TMD pipe near the intersection
of Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue to help impede the PCB infiltration into the drain
from the surrounding backfill materials. During the 2015 construction activities PCB oil
was observed (sampling confirmed) between the CIPP liner and the TMD pipe, resulting
in the excavation of the pipe beneath Harper Avenue and the associated CIPP liner.
Figure 7 displays the two vaults (M7179 and J01) that were removed, replaced, and
lined along with the connecting pipe crossing under Harper Avenue.
The current conditions Figure 9 depicts the location of the remaining CIPP-lined portion
of the pipe that exists in the TMD System. PCB oil exists between this CIPP liner and the
pipe. Figure 9 also highlights the two vaulted manhole locations with backfill PCB
concentrations above 1,000 pm (M4335 and M7183) and the extent of backfill materials
along the TMD pipe with PCB concentrations exceeding 10 ppm.
PCB concentrations inside the TMD System
In April 2012, EPA started routine monthly source control activities and reduced the
frequency of these activities in 2019 from monthly to every other month, bimonthly.
EPA conducts bimonthly source control activities to reduce the volume of PCBs from
discharging to the canals and to observe drain conditions. EPA continues source control
activities because PCB-impacted backfill materials and the CIPP lined portion of the


                                            21
drain continue to re-enter the pipe and serve as a secondary source of PCBs to the TMD
System.
In general, source control field sampling activities include placement, and/or removal of
absorbent snares, sampling of any sediment and oil present, and proper disposal of
saturated snares and PCB-contaminated sediment inside the TMD System. EPA routinely
collects samples at nineteen (19) manhole locations with weirs installed at seventeen
(17) manhole vaults. There is not a weir at vault J01 (near the intersection of Bon Brae
and Harper) and M6969 (near the intersection of Lakeland Street and Jefferson Avenue)
as depicted on Figure 5.
Sediment PCB concentration trends by year (2012 through 2022) in the TMD System are
depicted on Figure 10. The top graph on the figure displays the mean (average of all
samples collected at each of the nineteen sampling locations) and the bottom graph
displays the median (middle number, used when there is high variability in
concentrations that might skew the average of the values). In 2015, before the removal
and replacement of manhole vaults M7179 and J01 and the connecting pipe, the mean
sediment PCB concentration inside the TMD System was as high as 9,721 ppm in 2012,
5,647 ppm in 2013, and 1,278 ppm in 2014. Six years after the second interim remedial
activities, the mean sediment PCB concentration inside the TMD System was 311.5 ppm
in 2021 and 271.8 ppm in 2022. The sediment data is the most complete and robust
data set and provides evidence for a significant downward trend (using the Mann
Kendall analysis) of sediment PCB concentrations in the drain over time, as noted on the
bottom graph on Figure 10.

In the June 2023 sediment sampling results, PCB concentrations in the TMD System
ranged from non-detect to 740 ppm at manhole M4262 on Harper Avenue near
Lakeland Street, as well as PCB concentration exceeding 200 ppm at the following two
manhole locations: M4432 and M6975 on Bon Brae Street nearby Jefferson Avenue.
Snare PCB concentration trends by year 2012 through 2022 in the TMD System are
depicted on Figure 11. The figure displays the mean and median snare PCB
concentration trend for all snare sample locations (collected at each of the 9 snare
sample locations) by year. Prior to 2015, the yearly mean snare PCB concentration was
above 2,000 ppm with the highest snare result 6,333 ppm in 2013. Six years after the
second interim remedial activities, the yearly mean snare PCB concentrations inside the
TMD System was below 300 ppm (approximately 184 ppm in 2020 and 2021 and 252.8
ppm in 2022). While the Mann Kendall trend test for snares at all locations by year
resulted in no significant trend, overall, the snare PCB concentration trend analysis
suggests a general downward trend as demonstrated by the linear regression line and
associated negative slope at the bottom of Figure 11.

In the June 2023 snare sampling results, PCB concentrations in the TMD System range
from non-detect to 7,800 ppm at manhole M4263 on Harper Avenue near Lakeland



                                           22
Street, as well as PCB concentration exceeding 200 ppm at the following two manhole
locations: M4281 and J01 on Harper Avenue.

Wipe/Roller Samples Collected Inside the TMD System and utility trench water

During the RI, EPA collected wipe/roller samples for PCB analysis from 92 manholes
within the TMD System and 4 surface water catch basins draining to the TMD System
from the commercial property located at 26210 Harper Avenue, the likely area where
the historical PCB release occurred. The manholes along the main line of the TMD
System were sampled using the wipe/roller method, and 31 of the 92 manholes
sampled had detectable concentrations of PCBs. The concentrations of the samples
ranged from non-detect to 5 billion PCB units1 (manhole M7179). Figure 8 displays the
TMD System manhole locations. In general, the greater concentrations (more than
100,000 PCB units) were found along Lakeland Street, Bon Brae Street, and Jefferson
Avenue. Utility trench water samples were collected from five permanent monitoring
wells and analyzed for PCBs. Four utility water samples had detectible concentrations of
PCBs. The concentrations of the utility trench water samples ranged from non-detect to
16 micrograms per liter (µg/L).

Groundwater

Soil borings advanced at the Site to a depth of 35 feet bgs did not encounter groundwater.
The shallowest aquifer in the vicinity of the Site is approximately 80 feet bgs. Therefore,
groundwater is not a medium of concern at the Site.

Conceptual Site Model

A Conceptual Site Model (CSM) has been developed for the TMD Site based on Site
characteristics and the results of multiple investigations conducted. A CSM tells a story
of how contamination at a Site has moved and what impacts such movement may have
had. The overall CSM for the TMD Site suggests that the PCB-contaminated oil originated
from a historical release at the commercial property (as discussed under the Site History
and Enforcement Activities) located at the corner of Lakeland Street and Harper Avenue.
It appears that PCB-contaminated oil was dumped or used for dust control on a former
dirt parking lot on the eastern side of the building that was on that property at that time.
Once in the ground, the PCBs, which are dense and therefore sink in water, follow a
preferential pathway through the TMD utility corridor. Native soils in the area are
dense, semi-impermeable clay to silty clay that does not readily transmit water or other
liquids. The soils observed in the utility corridor borings were either disturbed native
soils or imported backfill materials until the native soils beneath the utility corridors
were encountered. PCBs were not detected in any samples collected from within the

1
 Since the manhole samples were collected using the wipe/roller method, the data are only used for
relative comparison purposes, therefore units on the wipe/roller samples are displayed in PCB units.


                                                   23
native clay. Therefore, the most likely migration pathway for the PCB contamination is
the more transmissive, disturbed native soils and/or imported fill materials in the
backfilled TMD utility corridor. In addition, the bottoms of the manhole vault structures
are lower in elevation than the concrete pipe portions of the TMD System, which
creates a low point for contaminants and water to accumulate around the base of the
vaults.
The PCB contamination from the parking lot migrated, surficial tracked out, and/or was
transported by the following mechanisms:
         PCB contamination likely entered the TMD System during storm events, as
          depicted on Figure 12, and subsequently discharged into the Lange and Revere
          Street canals, where it adhered to the canal sediments.
         Residents along the Lange and Revere Street canals often placed pumps in the
          canals to water their yards, gardens, or clean boats. The pumps may have pulled
          water containing suspended sediment particles, and this may have deposited
          PCB-contaminated sediment particles onto yards, as depicted in Figure 13.
         Investigations targeting the former above ground drain identified PCBs in the
          area where the former Martin Drain crossed the parking lot of the commercial
          property. Figure 14 depicts where PCB contamination likely entered into the
          former Martin Drain and subsequently migrated along the open drain, depositing
          trace amounts of PCB contamination.

         PCB contamination was likely tracked out of the parking lot and onto adjacent
          properties down Lakeland and Bon Brae Streets, as depicted in Figure 15.
As noted earlier, PCB-impacted near-surface soils at residential and commercial properties
were addressed in the 2018 ROD. This ROD addresses the PCB contamination within a
portion of the TMD storm sewer system (including TMD pipe, manholes and backfill
materials). PCB impacted sediments in the Lange and Revere Street canal will be
addressed in a future decision document.


2.6       Current and Potential Future Land and Resource Uses

The PCB-impacted TMD pipe, manhole vaults, and associated backfill materials
addressed by this ROD are located in a mixed commercial/residential area near Harper
Avenue and Bon Brae Street, as depicted on Figure 2. It is anticipated that the land
usage in the immediate vicinity of the area addressed by this response action, as well as
in the immediate vicinity of other areas of the Site, will remain unchanged for the
foreseeable future. As noted earlier, groundwater is not a medium of concern at the Site
and is not addressed in this ROD.

2.7 Summary of Site Risks



                                             24
The risk assessment provides the basis for taking action and identifies the contaminants
and exposure pathways that need to be addressed by the remedial action. As part of the
RI, EPA conducted a HHRA and a SLERA that evaluated current and potential risks to
human health and the environment posed by all remaining areas of the Site, including
near-surface soils, the TMD System, and canal sediments. Because this ROD addresses
the TMD System, the discussion below focuses on the risks posed by the TMD utility
corridor soils. The risks posed by near-surface soils were discussed and addressed in the
2018 ROD. A future decision document will address the risk associated with PCB-
impacted sediment in the canals.

Human Health Risks

For Superfund Sites, EPA evaluates risks to human health due to both carcinogens and
non-carcinogens, as discussed below.

Cancer Risks

For carcinogens, risks are generally expressed as the incremental probability of an
individual's developing cancer over a lifetime as a result of exposure to the carcinogen.
Excess lifetime cancer risk (ELCR) is calculated from the following equation:
   ELCR = CDI x SF
   where:
       ELCR = a unitless probability (e.g., 2x10-5) of an individual's developing cancer
       CDI = chronic daily intake averaged over 70 years (mg/kg-day)
       SF = slope factor, expressed as (mg/kg-day)-1

These risks are probabilities that usually are expressed in scientific notation (e.g., 1x10-
6). An ELCR of 1x10-6 indicates that an individual experiencing the reasonable maximum

exposure estimate has a 1 in 1,000,000 chance of developing cancer as a result of site-
related exposure. This is referred to as an "excess lifetime cancer risk" because it would
be in addition to the risks of cancer individuals face from other causes such as smoking
or exposure to too much sun. The chance of an individual's developing cancer from all
other causes has been estimated to be as high as one in three. EPA's generally
acceptable risk range for site-related carcinogenic exposures is 1x10-4 to 1x10-6.

Non-cancer Hazards

The potential for noncarcinogenic effects is evaluated by comparing an exposure level
over a specified time period (e.g., lifetime) with a reference dose (RfD) derived for a
similar exposure period. An RfD represents a level that an individual may be exposed to
that is not expected to cause any deleterious effect. The ratio of exposure to toxicity is
called a hazard quotient (HQ). An HQ<1 indicates that a receptor's dose of a single
contaminant is less than the RfD, and that toxic noncarcinogenic effects from that

                                             25
contaminant are unlikely. The hazard index (HI) is generated by adding the HQs for all
COCs that affect the same target organ (e.g., liver) or that act through the same
mechanism of action within a medium or across all media to which a given individual
may reasonably be exposed. An HI<1 indicates that, based on the sum of all HQs from
different contaminants and exposure routes, toxic noncarcinogenic effects from all
contaminants are unlikely. An HI > 1 indicates that site-related exposures may present a
risk to human health. The HQ is calculated as follows:

       Non-cancer HQ = CDI/RfD
       where:
       CDI = chronic daily intake
       RfD = reference dose

CDI and RfD are expressed in the same units and represent the same exposure period
(i.e., chronic, subchronic, or short-term).

TMD Site HHRA

HHRA Tables A, B, C, D and HHRA Figure 1 are referenced in the discussion below and
provided in Appendix C of this ROD.

The cancer toxicity data used in the HHRA were obtained from EPA’s Integrated Risk
Information System (IRIS) database and California Environmental Protection Agency’s
toxicity database, as presented in Table A. EPA considers PCBs to be a probable human
carcinogen through the ingestion, dermal contact, and inhalation pathways.

The noncancer oral toxicity data used in the HHRA were obtained from EPA’s IRIS
database, and are based on developmental effects on unborn children, as well as effects
on nails, eyes, the immune system, and testes, as presented in Table B.

The HHRA identified PCBs as the only COC at the Site. PCBs can pose a potential health
risk through incidental ingestion of contaminated soil or water, consumption of
contaminated fish, by direct skin contact or through breathing PCB-contaminated air or
particulates.

Based on the data collected during the SAI and RI, EPA determined there were
unacceptable human health risks from exposure to contaminated TMD utility corridor
soils at the TMD Site. The assessment of risk assumed a current and future utility worker
scenario, with exposure from contaminants through ingestion, inhalation, and dermal
contact with TMD utility corridor soils from 0 to 10 feet. HHRA Figure 1 depicts the
Human Health Conceptual Site Model. Both the Hazard Index (HI), the excess lifetime
cancer risk and the non-cancer hazard index exceeded EPA’s acceptable risk range.



                                           26
The HHRA evaluated potential risks to current and future residents (adults and young
children), commercial property users and utility workers who may be exposed to PCBs in
soils at residential properties, commercial properties and right-of-way through
incidental ingestion, dermal absorption, and inhalation of soil/dust. It is important to
note that some level of uncertainty is introduced to the risk assessment process every
time an assumption is made. In regulatory risk assessment, the methodology dictates
that assumptions err on the side of overestimating potential exposure and risk. For
example, for future exposure, the HHRA assumed that future invasive activities may
disturb soil in the shallow subsurface and bring current subsurface soil to the ground
surface where contact and exposure may occur. Such assumptions may result in
overestimates of potential risks to human receptors.

The specific exposure scenarios evaluated and the results of the HHRA for receptors
with risk estimates exceeding EPA’s acceptable levels are presented in Table C (for
carcinogenic effects) and Table D (for non-carcinogenic effects). The following exposure
pathways were quantified - for current and future exposure Scenarios for utility
workers:

      PCB concentrations in three known utility corridors – Bon Brae Street, Lakeland
       Street, and the TMD utility corridor – exceed an HI of 1.

      Total Soils – Ingestion and dermal contact exposures to total PCBs in total soil (0
       to 10 feet) in the utility corridors (and right-of-way) along Harper Avenue, Bon
       Brae Street, Lakeland Street, and TMD were quantified for utility workers.

      Ambient Air - Inhalation exposures to total PCBs emitted from total soil (0 to 10
       feet) in the utility corridors (and right-of-way) were quantified for utility workers.

The Bon Brae Street and Lakeland Street utility corridors located in the right-of-way
(water main lines) are addressed in the 2018 ROD. The exposure to the TMD utility
corridor soils will be addressed in this ROD.

As noted above in Section 2.6, the current land uses evaluated in the HHRA are also
assumed to be the reasonably anticipated future land uses. Also noted earlier in this
ROD, groundwater is not a medium of concern at the TMD Site, so current or potential
beneficial uses of groundwater were not discussed.

Source Control

High concentrations of PCBs that have accumulated in the backfill and bedding materials
at the base of selected manhole vaults continue to re-enter the TMD storm sewer pipe.
The remaining PCB-impacted bedding/backfill materials in the TMD System act as a
continuing source of contaminants to the drain and, ultimately, the Lange and Revere
Street canals. The remaining PCB-impacted portions of the TMD System include: the


                                            27
CIPP-lined portion of the pipe in the TMD System, where PCB oil exists between this
CIPP liner and the pipe; the two vaulted manhole locations with PCB concentrations in
the backfill above 1,000 pm (M4335 at 1,500 ppm and M7183 at 3,500 ppm); and the
extent of PCB-impacted backfill materials along the TMP pipe connecting with PCB
concentrations exceeding 10 ppm. This information is depicted on Figure 9 and
discussed in Nature and Extent of Contamination- Section 2.5 of this ROD.

PCBs can pose potential health risks through incidental ingestion of contaminated soil or
water, consumption of contaminated fish, by direct skin contact, or through breathing
PCB-contaminated air or particles. Although recent sediment sampling data shows that
the canal sediments have already been re-contaminated by PCBs since the 2002-2004
removal action, EPA believes it is imperative to prevent further environmental
degradation. If left unaddressed, the PCB residual source materials remaining in the
TMD System could continue to enter the TMD storm sewer pipe and migrate to the
canals, creating even more widespread contamination of the canal sediments and
higher PCB concentrations in fish, and leading to significantly more expensive costs for
the final Site remedy. Plus, in accordance with EPA’s contamination sediment
management strategy, “source control” is the first principle for managing contaminated
sediment risk at Superfund Sites.

Ecological Risks

The SLERA evaluated potential effects of PCBs on ecological receptors inhabiting
residential and commercial developed areas including terrestrial habitat, soil
invertebrates, and upper-level tropic biota (birds and small mammals). Due to lack of
habitat, the SLERA did not evaluate the TMD stormwater system for risk to ecological
receptors.

Basis for Taking Action

The risk management goal for this response action is associated with exposure to PCBs
in the TMD utility corridor soils. In addition, the response action selected is necessary to
mitigate the continued migration of contaminants and prevent further environmental
degredation from actual or threatened release of hazardous substance into the
environment.

The TMD System impacted by PCBs include a segment of the TMD pipe, selected manhole
vaults along with their surrounding impacted backfill materials that appear to be serving
as a residual source of PCBs to the rest of the drainage system and the Lange and Revere
Street canals. This continued release from the drain to the environment may endanger
public health, welfare, or the environment. While this ROD does not directly address the
sediments or fish in the canals, it is intended to prevent further environmental
degradation by controlling the residual PCB source in the TMD System upgradient of the



                                             28
canals. A source control action needs to be taken to prevent further migration of the
contaminants and environmental degradation.

Therefore, during the FS, EPA developed and evaluated alternatives to mitigate the risk
posed by PCBs in the TMD System utility corridor soils and source materials that
continue to release into the drain. Those alternatives are described in later sections of
this ROD.

2.8       Remedial Action Objectives

Remedial action objectives (RAOs) are general description of goals to be accomplished
through cleanup activities. RAOs are established by considering the medium of concern,
COCs, the allowable risk range, potential exposure routes and potential receptors.

RAOs

An RAO was developed for the TMD System with consideration of the contaminant
levels and exposure pathways found to present potentially unacceptable risk to human
health and the environment as determined by the RI. The HHRA identified unacceptable
risk to utility workers in the TMD utility corridor soils, which formed the basis for
development of the following RAO for TMD utility corridor soils:
         Prevent direct human contact with or ingestion and inhalation of PCBs in utility
          corridor soil by current and potential future utility workers during construction
          activities within utility corridors that could result in an unacceptable risk to
          human health.

A second RAO was developed for the TMD System to address the residual PCB source
materials in the TMD storm sewer system including the TMD pipe, manhole vaults, and
the associated PCB-impacted backfill and bedding materials:
         Mitigate the migration of PCB contamination and prevent further environmental
          impact to the Lange and Revere Street canal sediments by reducing the
          infiltration of PCB-contaminated oil, contaminated utility trench water, and
          impacted backfill materials into the TMD System.


Cleanup Levels

The final cleanup level for the TMD utility corridor soils is listed and discussed below and
is the same as the PRG included in the Proposed Plan. The final cleanup level for the
TMD utility corridor soils is based on both protective risk-based concentrations
(considering the risk range of 10-4 to 10-6) and a review of federal and state applicable or
relevant and appropriate requirements (ARARs).



                                              29
         Utility corridor soil – cleanup level is 21 ppm for utility workers.
              o This cleanup level is based on a site-specific utility/construction worker
                exposure scenario, which includes workers in contact with soil beneath
                the road surface or in utility corridors, and assumes an exposure
                frequency of 20 days per year and an exposure duration of 5 years;
              o It is based on a target ELCR of 1×10-6 and is therefore within EPA’s
                acceptable risk range of 10-4 to 10-6;
              o It is based on a target non-cancer HI of 1; and
              o It will provide protection that meets the substantive standards for a PCB
                waste cleanup under 40 C.F.R. § 761.61(c) in that the cleanup level does
                not impose an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.

2.9       Description of Alternatives

Five (5) remedial alternatives were developed in the 2020 Sitewide FS to address the
remaining source of PCB contamination within a portion of the TMD System and
potential risks to utility workers posed by PCB-contaminated soils in the TMD utility
corridor. Figure 16 depicts the remediation target area of the TMD System that is the
focus of this ROD. The remedial technologies that remained following the screening
process include solidification, removal, excavation, appropriate disposal, and ICs.
Additional details about these alternatives are available in the Sitewide FS Report.

Capital costs include expenditures that are required to construct (design, geotechnical
investigation) a remedial alternative including operation and maintenance costs of each
alternative. The “present worth” cost is the amount of money which, if invested in the
current year, would be sufficient to cover all the costs over time associated with a
project. Present-worth costs have been calculated to help compare costs among
alternatives with different implementation times. Assumptions associated with the
present-worth calculations include a discount rate of 3.5%2 before taxes and after
inflation.

          2.9.1 Description of Common Elements Among Remedial Alternatives

All the remedial alternatives evaluated in the FS, except the no action alternative,
include the following common elements:

         Pre-design studies would be required to assess options for the Lakeland Street
          drain, which would include cleaning or replacement of the section of the drain
          and one catch basin on the western end of Lakeland Street, adjacent to the
          commercial property located on the corner of Harper Avenue and Lakeland

2 Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget (OMB). 2015. Memorandum for the Heads of

Departments and Agencies: 2016 Discount Rates for Circular No. A-94 was used as guidance for selecting the discount
rate for this cost estimate.


                                                        30
    Street as displayed on Figure 16. For cost estimating purposes, Alternative 2
    through 5 assume the cost of replacement of the Lakeland Street drain and one
    catch basin.

   Stormwater diversion would be necessary around the construction area to keep
    water from backing up onto the streets during storm events and to keep the
    work area dry. Since the TMD System always contains water due to its elevation
    relative to Lake St. Clair, the drain would need to be dewatered during
    construction.

   A portable wastewater treatment plant would be used to treat water entering
    the construction area prior to discharge back into the TMD System downgradient
    of the construction area.

   Vaults and piping outside the targeted remediation footprint containing low-
    level residual PCBs would be cleaned (power-washed or similar type cleaning
    method) after the drain is dewatered. These areas are identified on Figure 16.

   Pre- and Post-construction monitoring:

       -   The monitoring plan would be developed to include pre- and post-
           construction monitoring of the stormwater inside the TMD System to
           assess if PCB mobility into the drain and subsequently the canals has
           been mitigated by the selected remedy. The primary objective of the
           monitoring plan would be to gather sufficient data to determine when
           the sediment remediation could be implemented with nominal risk of
           recontamination to canal sediments.

       -   A goal of the pre- and post -construction monitoring plan would be to
           obtain information within the system such as described below and
           determine when the PCB concentrations in the TMD System reach an
           equilibrium. This approach was selected due to the partially submerged
           outfall into the Lange and Revere Street canals, which results in water
           continually present within the TMD System. Wind direction causes water-
           level fluctuations (seiches) along the shoreline of Lake St. Clair. Onshore
           winds cause water levels to increase in the canals, resulting in a reversed
           water flow from the canals into the TMD System. The reverse flow could
           cause suspended PCB-contaminated sedimented to be pulled upstream
           into the TMD System. Due to these system dynamics, instead of
           determining a specific ppm goal to trigger the excavation of the
           sediments, post TMD sewer system construction monitoring would focus
           on achieving an equilibrium of PCB concentration throughout the system.




                                       31
           For costing purposes, a few basic components of the TMD monitoring
           plan are listed below, which would be further developed during design.

           -   The ongoing source control activities, which tracks sediment
               concentrations behind the weirs and tests for the presence of PCBs
               would continue and will serve as a substantial data set for
               comparison to pre-remedy conditions. Please note, that the cost
               associated with this data collection is not included in the cost
               estimates listed in this ROD.

           -   Large-volume water samples would be collected from inside the TMD
               System starting near the Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue
               intersection to the TMD outfall. The large-volume water sampling
               would be performed seasonally at the start of rainfall or flow events
               where water within the drain is actively moving toward the TMD
               outfall. Additionally, one or two “non-flow” events to assess static
               conditions within the drain would help to refine the understanding of
               the system. This data would also provide insight into the contribution
               of the sediments that flush back into the drain from the canals
               because of the seiche effects.

           -   Sediment sampling in the depositional areas near the heads of the
               Lange and Revere canals would assess if clean material deposits in the
               canals over time.

           -   Deployment of sediment traps throughout the canals and analysis of
               the collected material would provide further understanding and
               characterization of the sediment deposited within the area. Ideally,
               traps would be deployed throughout the canals to evaluate the
               quality of sediment being deposited near the outfall (dominant
               source would be solids from the drain) and near the ends of the
               canals (dominated by sediment coming in from Lake St. Clair).

   Institutional Controls would be evaluated in the form of either a deed restriction,
    deed notifications and or other documentation, if PCB-contaminated utility soils
    above the utility worker PRG (21 ppm) remain in place after remedial alternative
    components have been implemented. In addition, EPA would continue to
    coordinate with MCPW, responsible for the upkeep of the TMD System, to serve
    as another means to mitigate potential intrusive activity that could result in
    compromising components of the Selected Remedy.




                                        32
       2.9.2 Description of Remedial Alternatives

Alternative 1: No Action

EPA is required to evaluate a “no action” alternative when considering potential
remedial actions for a site to provide a baseline for comparison to the other potential
response actions. Under this alternative, EPA would take no additional action to
exposure to PCB-impacted soils in the utility backfill materials and further migration of
PCBs through the TMD System to the canals and would not include any monitoring, or
institutional controls. PCB-impacted pipe and soils would remain in place at the Site.
However, the NCP requires FYRs as long as hazardous substances remain at the Site at
concentrations that do not allow for UU/UE.

Estimated Capital Cost: $0
Estimated Annual O&M Cost: $0
Estimated Total Present Worth: $95,000
Estimated Remedial Action Construction Timeframe: none

Alternative 2: Grout Backfill Materials and Install Liner at 7 Manhole Vaults and Install
Liner Inside a Segment of the TMD Pipe.

Alternative 2 would (1) address TMD utility corridor soils with total PCBs concentrations
exceeding the utility worker PRG in soil, (2) mitigate the mobility of PCBs through
solidification of the backfill with grout, and (3) eliminate contact (and potential future
contact) between the water within the TMD and the potential source areas below the
vaults through containment using an epoxy liner. A sketch depicting Alternative 2 (at a
single vault) is shown in Figure 17. The major elements of Alternative 2 include the
following:

      PCB-impacted stone bedding and backfill materials at each of the seven manhole
       vaults; including three manhole vaults on Harper Avenue (M4263, M4262, and
       J01); and four manhole vaults on Bon Brae Street (M4281, M4335, M7183, and
       M4334) solidified with grout. The grout would be applied in the backfill and on
       all sides and beneath each vaulted manhole to sufficient depths in order to
       significantly reduce PCB mobility. Figure 18 displays the location of the selected
       vaults.

      Epoxy lining would be installed inside each of the seven grouted manhole vaults
       and a portion of the TMD pipe (2,100 linear feet) to eliminate contact or prevent
       potential future contact, between water within the TMD System and the PCB-
       impacted backfill below the vaults. Figure 18 depicts the manholes/vaults and
       section of the TMD pipe that would be epoxy lined.

Estimated Capital Cost: $5.9 million

                                            33
Estimated Annual Operation & Maintenance (O&M) Cost: $0.25 million
Estimated Periodic Cost: $3.0 million
Estimated Total Present Worth: $8.9 million
Estimated Remedial Action Construction Timeframe: 4 months

Alternative 3: Excavate, Install Liner, and Grout Backfill Materials at 6 Manhole Vaults;
Install Liner Inside a Segment of the TMD Pipe.

Alternative 3 would (1) address TMD utility corridor soils with total PCBs concentrations
exceeding the utility worker PRG in soil, (2) significantly reduce potentially mobile PCB
contamination through excavation and removal of manhole vaults in the remediation
target area, (3) decrease the mobility of PCBs through backfill solidification, and (4)
eliminate contact (and prevent potential future contact) between the water within the
TMD and the impacted source areas below the vaults using an epoxy liner. A sketch
depicting Alternative 3 (at a single vault) is shown in Figure 19. Figure 20 displays the
manhole vaults targeted to be either replaced, grouted and epoxy lined. The major
elements of Alternative 3 include the following:

      Excavation and replacement of six manhole vaults [two vaults on Harper Avenue
       (M4263 and M4262) and four vaults on Bon Brae Street (M4281, M4335, M7183,
       and M4334)] along with the surrounding impacted stone bedding and backfill
       materials and proper off-site disposal of the contaminated materials. The extent
       of excavation around the vaults would be determined through visual inspection
       and confirmatory sampling. Six new manhole vaults along with new stone
       bedding and clean backfill materials would be installed to replace the excavated
       vaults. The FS assumes for cost-estimating purposes that excavated soils will be
       PCB-contaminated (hazardous) soils and assumes disposal in a TSCA-permitted
       Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Subtitle C landfill.

      J01 manhole vault and impacted backfill materials were removed and replaced
       during the implementation of the second interim remedy, therefore vault J01 is
       not targeted for excavation.

      Grouting of backfill materials would target the newly installed vaults and J01.
       Since a portion of the TMD pipe along with its PCB-impacted backfill materials
       would remain in the remediation target area, the grout would be applied in the
       backfill and on all sides to sufficient depths to solidify PCB impacted materials, to
       serve as another layer of protection to the new vaults and decrease the PCB
       mobility and infiltration into the TMD System.

      Epoxy lining would be installed inside each of the grouted manhole vaults, J01,
       and a segment of the TMD pipe (2,100 linear feet) to eliminate contact and
       prevent potential future contact between the water within the TMD System and
       the impacted backfill materials.


                                            34
Estimated Capital Cost: $9.5 million
Estimated Annual O&M Cost: $0.25 million
Estimated Periodic Cost: $3.0 million
Estimated Total Present Worth: $12.5 million
Estimated Remedial Action Construction Timeframe: 6 months

Alternative 4: Excavate and Replace Two Manhole Vaults (M4262 and M4281) and the
CIPP-Lined Segment of the TMD Pipe; Grout Backfill Materials/Install Liner at 5
Manhole Vaults; Install Liner Inside a Segment of the TMD Pipe.

Alternative 4 would (1) address TMD utility corridor soils with total PCBs concentrations
exceeding the utility worker PRG in soil, (2) significantly reduce potentially mobile PCB
contamination through excavation and removal of two manhole vaults and segments of
CIPP liner sewer pipe where PCB-contaminated oil has been visually observed along with
manhole vaults at the end of liner, (3) decrease the mobility of PCBs through backfill
solidification; and (4) eliminate contact (and prevent potential future contact) between
the water within the TMD and the potential source areas below selected manhole vaults
using an epoxy liner. The major elements of Alternative 4 include the following:

      Excavation and replacement of two manhole vaults (M4262 and M4281) and the
       CIPP-lined portion of the TMD pipe (approximately 600 linear feet) located
       between these two vaults, along with the surrounding impacted stone bedding
       and backfill materials (depicted on Figure 21) along with proper off-site disposal
       of the contaminated materials. J01 would not be excavated since it was
       addressed during the second interim remedy. The extent of excavation around
       the vaults would be determined through visual inspection and confirmatory
       sampling. The FS assumes for cost-estimating purposes that excavated soils will
       be PCB-contaminated (hazardous) soils and assumes disposal in a
       TSCA-permitted Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Subtitle C
       landfill.

      Two new manhole vaults and a portion of the TMD concrete pipe including new
       stone bedding and clean backfill materials would be installed.

      Grouting of backfill materials would target J01, manhole vaults M4263 on Harper
       Avenue and three manhole vaults on Bon Brae Street (M4335, M7183, and
       M4334). The grout would be applied in the backfill and on all sides to sufficient
       depths to solidify PCB impacted materials, to serve as another layer of protection
       to the new vaults and decrease the PCB mobility and infiltration into the TMD
       System. Figure 21 displays the location of the selected manhole vaults targeted
       for grouting.

      Epoxy lining would be installed inside the five grouted manhole vaults listed
       above and a portion of the TMD pipe (approximately 1,510 linear feet) to


                                           35
       eliminate contact and/or prevent potential future contact between the water
       within the TMD System and the impacted backfill remaining below these
       manhole vaults.

Estimated Capital Cost: $14.2 million
Estimated Annual O&M Cost: $0.25 million
Estimated Periodic Cost: $3.0 million
Estimated Total Present Worth: $17.3 million
Estimated Remedial Action Construction Timeframe: 8 months

Alternative 5: Excavate and Replace 6 Manhole Vaults, Segment of the TMD Pipe
including the CIPP Liner. (Identified in the June 2023 Proposed Plan as EPA’s Preferred
Alternative)

Alternative 5 would (1) address TMD utility corridor soils with total PCBs concentrations
exceeding the utility worker PRG in soil, (2) remove potentially mobile PCB
contamination from the Site through excavation and disposal of contaminated materials
off-site, thereby effectively eliminating infiltration between the potential source areas
(PCB-impacted utility trench water and backfill material) and the TMD pipe. A sketch
depicting Alternative 5 (at a single vault) is shown in Figure 22. The major elements of
Alternative 5 include the following:

      Excavation and replacement of the six manhole vaults: 2 vaults on Harper
       Avenue (M4262 and M4263) and 4 vaults on Bon Brae Street (M4281, M4335,
       M7183, and M4334) and a segment of the TMD concrete pipe (approximately
       2,110 linear feet) along with their surrounding PCB-impacted stone bedding and
       backfill materials (depicted on Figure 23). The segment of the pipe includes the
       CIPP-lined portion. Alternative 5 includes proper off-site disposal of
       contaminated materials. As noted earlier, vault J01 would not be excavated since
       it was remediated during the second interim remedy. The extent of excavation
       around the manhole vaults and TMD pipe would be determined through visual
       inspection and confirmatory sampling. The FS assumes for cost-estimating
       purposes that excavated soils will be PCB-contaminated (hazardous) soils and
       assumes disposal in a TSCA-permitted Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
       (RCRA) Subtitle C landfill.

      Installation of six new manhole vaults, TMD piping, and stone bedding and
       backfill materials to match the depths of the removed piping and vaults and tied
       into the TMD System’s existing vaults. Sewer lines that tie into the affected area
       of the drain would be reconnected to the new drain. The remainder of the
       excavation would be backfilled with native or clean backfill materials and
       completed on the surface to preconstruction conditions.

Estimated Capital Cost: $22.2 million


                                           36
Estimated Annual O&M Cost: $0.25 million
Estimated Periodic Cost: $3.0 million
Estimated Total Present Worth: $25.3 million
Estimated Remedial Action Construction Timeframe: 10 months

       2.9.3 Discussion of Performance Standards for Remedial Alternatives

In general, the bottom of the TMD utility corridor is 15 feet below grade. For each of the
cleanup alternatives listed above, the risk to the utility worker would be mitigated once
PCBs in soil (0 to 10 feet) above 21 ppm is addressed. Therefore, it is important to note,
in addition to meeting the numeric utility corridor soils cleanup goal of 21 ppm, this
action would also serve as a source control action. This action would mitigate
contaminant migration and prevent further environmental degradation by addressing
the remaining PCB source materials in the TMD storm sewer system upstream of the
Lange and Revere Canals. For this reason, performance standards would also be used
during the remedial action in conjunction with the numeric utility worker cleanup goal.

Under Alternatives 3 through 5, performance standards for the excavation and removal
of source materials adjacent to the vaulted manholes include but are not limited to:

       1) visual standards – i.e., excavation of PCB-impacted materials based on the
       observation of oily and/or impacted backfill and bedding materials beneath and
       adjacent to the vaults.
       2) depth standards based on lithological characteristics – i.e., excavation up to 2
       feet into the undisturbed native clay below the manhole vault/pipe and bedding
       materials. The native materials at the Site are described as dense, semi-
       impermeable clay or silty clay. The soils observed in the utility corridor borings
       are either disturbed native soils or imported backfill materials, until the native
       soils (clay) beneath the utility corridors are encountered. During Site
       characterization activities, low to no detections of PCBs were found in samples
       collected from within the undisturbed native clay.
       3) lateral-distance standards – i.e., excavation of impacted materials located
       laterally from the vaulted manholes/pipe for a minimum of 5 feet in each
       direction outside the vaulted manhole/pipe or as deemed necessary during
       remedial design to properly connect the new manhole and piping and for
       excavation bracing/safety.

Performance standards under Alternatives 2, 3, and 4 for solidification of source
materials are engineering performance standards – i.e., to apply the grout in the backfill
on all sides and beneath the pipe and vaulted manholes to sufficient depths above and
below the PCB-impacted materials in order to significantly reduce the PCB mobility. The




                                            37
source materials would be immobilized by injection of a grout mixture defined in the
remedial design.

2.10   Comparative Analysis of Alternatives

Section 121(b)(1) of CERCLA presents several factors that EPA is required to consider in
its assessment of alternatives. Building upon these specific statutory mandates, the NCP
articulates nine evaluation criteria to be used in assessing the individual remedial
alternatives. The purpose of this evaluation is to promote consistent identification of
the relative advantages and disadvantages of each alternative, thereby guiding selection
of remedies offering the most effective and efficient means of achieving Site cleanup
goals. While all nine criteria are important, they are weighed differently in the decision-
making process depending on whether they evaluate protection of human health and
the environment or compliance with federal and state requirements, standards, criteria,
and limitations (threshold criteria); consider technical or economic merits (primary
balancing criteria); or involve the evaluation of non-EPA reviewers that may influence an
EPA decision (modifying criteria).

This section of the ROD evaluates each alternative against the nine evaluation criteria
and notes how each compare to the other alternatives under consideration. The nine
criteria are divided into three groups: threshold, balancing, and modifying criteria.
Alternatives that do not meet the threshold criteria are not considered further. These
nine criteria are described below, followed by a discussion of how each alternative
meets or does not meet each criterion.

Explanation of the Nine Evaluation Criteria

Threshold Criteria
   1. Overall Protection of Human Health and the Environment determines whether
      an alternative eliminates, reduces, or controls threats to public health and the
      environment through ICs, engineering controls, or treatment.
   2. Compliance with Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements
      evaluates whether the alternative meets Federal and State environmental
      statutes, regulations, and other requirements that pertain to the Site, or
      whether a waiver is justified.

Primary Balancing Criteria

   3. Long-Term Effectiveness and Permanence considers the ability of an alternative
      to maintain protection of human health and the environment over time once
      cleanup levels have been met. This criterion also incorporates an evaluation of
      climate resilience.



                                              38
   4. Reduction of Toxicity, Mobility, or Volume Through Treatment addresses the
      statutory preference for selecting remedial actions that employ treatment
      technologies that permanently and significantly reduce toxicity, mobility, or
      volume of the hazardous substances as their principal element. This preference
      is satisfied when treatment is used to reduce the principal threats at the Site
      through destruction of toxic contaminants, reduction of the total mass of toxic
      contaminants, irreversible reduction in contaminant mobility, or reduction of
      total volume of contaminated media.
   5. Short-Term Effectiveness considers the length of time needed to implement an
      alternative and the risks the alternative poses to workers, residents, and the
      environment during implementation until cleanup levels are achieved.
   6. Implementability considers the technical and administrative feasibility of
      implementing the alternative, including factors such as the relative availability of
      goods and services, and coordination with other governmental entities.
   7. Cost includes estimated capital and annual operations and maintenance costs, as
      well as present worth cost. Present worth costs are the total costs of an
      alternative over time in terms of today’s dollar value and incorporates a 3.5%
      discount factor. Cost estimates are expected to be accurate within a range of +50
      to -30 percent.

Modifying Criteria
   8. State Agency Acceptance considers whether the state support agency concurs
      with the Selected Remedy.
   9. Community Acceptance considers the public’s general response to the remedial
      alternatives and whether the public supports the Selected Remedy.

Comparison of Alternatives

The Sitewide FS Report contains a detailed discussion of the comparative analysis of
alternatives, where the various alternatives are compared against each other in terms of
how they fare against the nine evaluation criteria. Each of the nine evaluation criteria
are discussed below with respect to the alternatives under consideration for this
remedial action.


       2.10.1 Overall Protection of Human Health and the Environment

Protectiveness is one of the primary requirements that remedial actions must meet
under CERCLA. A remedy is protective if it adequately eliminates, reduces, or controls
current and potential risks posed by the Site through each exposure pathway. The



                                           39
assessment with respect to this criterion describes how the alternatives achieve and
maintain protection of human health and the environment.

Alternative 1 – No action is not protective of human health and the environment since
the RAOs would not be achieved, risk associated with the contaminated TMD utility
corridor soils would not be reduced or controlled, and PCB-impacted materials
(secondary source) would not be controlled. PCBs would continue to migrate into the
drain and ultimately to the Lange and Revere Street canals and Lake St. Clair. No further
analysis will be completed for the No Action alternative since it does not meet this
threshold.

Alternative 2 would provide protection of human health and the environment because it
prevents contact of stormwater with the contaminated soil and backfill materials with
the epoxy liner and reduces future transport by encapsulating the contaminates via
grout application. Grouting and pipe lining may degrade over time, so monitoring would
be required to assure RAOs continue to be met.

Alternative 3 includes the remedy components of Alternative 2 with the removal and
replacement of six vaults and associated impacted backfill materials. Therefore,
Alternative 3 would provide an increase in protection of human health and the
environment compared to Alternative 2.

Alternatives 3 and 5 would protect human health and environment by removing PCB
contaminated soil and backfill material around the vaults (Alternative 3), as well as the
piping between them (Alternative 5).

Alternative 4 would protect human health and environment by removing the most
contaminated soils (CIPP-lined segment) of the TMD System where PCB-contaminated
oils have been visually observed, epoxy liner and jet grouting used in the remainder of
the drain also prevents contact with stormwater with contaminated soil and backfill and
reduces future transport by encapsulating the contaminants via grout application.
Therefore, Alternative 4 is expected to provide greater protection of human health and
the environment than Alternatives 2 or 3.

Alternative 5 is expected to provide the greatest level of protection of human health
and the environment by removing the impacted pipe and vaults within the remedial
action footprint, which includes the removal of six manhole vaults, and the most
contaminated soils (CIPP-lined segment). Alternative 5 provides the removal of the
largest volume of impacted material as well as removal and replacement of the pipe
segments instead of lining grouted areas. This results in the greatest reduction in
potential for human contact exposure or off-site transport via PCB-impacted sediment
and stormwater migration through TMD System.




                                            40
       2.10.2 Compliance with Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements

Section 121(d) of CERCLA and NCP § 300.430(f)(1)(ii)(B) require that remedial actions at
CERCLA sites at least attain legally applicable or relevant and appropriate Federal and
State requirements, standards, criteria, and limitations which are collectively referred to
as ARARs, unless such ARARs are waived under CERCLA § 121(d)(4).

This criterion assesses whether each alternative complies with federal and state
regulatory requirements that are either applicable or relevant and appropriate, known
as ARARs. Federal regulatory requirements are selected as ARARs unless a state
requirement is more stringent than its associated federal requirement. In addition to
ARARs, under 40 C.F.R. § 300.400(g)(3) EPA may, as appropriate, identify other
advisories, criteria, or guidance “to be considered” (TBC) when evaluating remedial
alternatives.

This section describes the key ARARs that are pertinent to remedy selection, while Table
2 sets forth the full list of all identified ARARs.

ARARs are grouped into three types: chemical-specific, location-specific, and action
specific ARARs. The following list the most critical ARARs pertinent for this remedy.
      Chemical-Specific ARARs include laws and requirements that establish health-or
       risk-based numerical values or methodologies for environmental contaminant
       concentrations that may define exposure levels. TSCA is the only chemical-
       specific ARAR for the TMD System waste managment. Because of the history and
       nature of PCB disposal, excavated soils and debris will be regulated in
       accordance with 40 Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.) Section 761.6(c) risk-
       based disposal.
      Location-Specific ARARs are requirements that relate to geographical position of
       the Site, none listed for this remedy.
      Action-Specific ARARs regulate the specific type of action, technology under
       consideration, or management of regulated materials. Action-specific ARARs
       generally set performance, design, or other similar action-specific controls or
       restrictions on particular kinds of activities related to managing hazardous
       substances or pollutants. For this proposed remedy, several alternatives include
       excavation, dewatering and water divers, backfill, restoration and off-site
       disposal. There are action-specific ARARs for any discharge of water that could
       occur during dewatering for excavation. Stormwater diverted from within the
       TMD System around the excavation is not considered a discharge of water.
       Regulations promulgated in Michigan addressing solid waste management, soil
       erosion, and sediment control, and discharge of water requirements are the
       most important action-specific ARARs to be complied with during
       implementation of the remedial action selected for the TMD System.


                                            41
Alternatives 2 through 5 are expected to comply with ARARs that are specific to the
scope of the proposed action. The primary ARARs to be met relate to federal
requirements under the TSCA, erosion controls during excavation, dust control,
compliance with hazardous waste transportation and disposal requirements, and air
pollution emission requirements. Alternatives 3, 4, and 5 include the disposal or
disturbance of contaminated soil. The final disposals of soils excavated would be
managed according to the requirements of TSCA and Michigan solid and hazardous
waste disposal regulations.

       2.10.3 Long-term Effectiveness and Permanence

The long-term effectiveness and permanence of the alternatives are evaluated in terms
of how well an option will work over the long term, including how safely remaining
contamination can be managed. The assessment of alternatives with respect to this
criterion evaluates the residual risk at a site after completing a remedial action or
enacting a no-action alternative and include evaluation of the adequacy and reliability of
controls.

Alternative 2 would reduce the magnitude of residual risk by preventing exposure to
contaminants in soil through grouting, vault lining, and institutional controls. Alternative
2 includes containment, but not source removal. Containment and institutional controls
are adequate and reliable in preventing direct contact and migration. Maintenance and
monitoring would be required. In areas of the TMD System that have been previously
lined with CIPP liner, the efficacy of installing epoxy liner on top of the existing liner is
not certain.
Alternative 3 is expected to provide increased long-term effectiveness and permanence
over Alternative 2 through partial source removal. However, Alternative 3 does not
address contaminants under pipe segments. Long term-maintenance is anticipated for
the implementation of Alternative 3.

Alternative 4 is expected to provide increased long-term effectiveness and permanence
over Alternative 3 through increased source removal and containment of pipe sections
between manhole vaults. Long term-maintenance is anticipated for the implementation
of Alternative 4.

Alternative 5 is expected to provide the greatest long-term effectiveness and
permanence with complete source removal. No long-term maintenance would be
required after implementation of Alternative 5.

As noted earlier, the development of a post-construction monitoring plan is required
under Alternatives 2 through 5 to determine if PCB mobility into the drain and
subsequently to the canals has been mitigated by the selected remedy and sufficient



                                             42
data is gathered to determine when the sediment remediation could be implemented
with nominal risk of recontamination of the canal sediments.

The migration and monitoring of Site related COCs is not anticipated to be impacted by
any varying climatological factor(s), and thus, Alternatives 2 through 5 are resilient to
climate change.


       2.10.4 Reduction of Toxicity, Mobility, or Volume of Contaminants through
       Treatment

Alternative 5 also does not include a treatment process to reduce toxicity, mobility, or
volume of the contaminated soils due to the use of excavation and complete removal of
PCB-impacted vaults, pipes, and associated backfill materials above cleanup levels.

Alternatives 2, 3, and 4 include solidification as a treatment process to reduce the PCB
mobility. However, only Alternative 2 includes solidification to meet EPA’s statutory
preference for remedial actions that employ treatment technologies as a principal
element. Alternatives 3 and 4 include solidification as a supplemental action with source
removal of soil.

While solidification meets the EPA statutory preference, the grout has a potential to
degrade and adversely impact the remedy’s long-term effectiveness. Immobilization of
the impacted soils through solidification reduces mobility of waste but does not
significantly reduce toxicity or volume of wastes. Removal, as included in partial source
removal under Alternatives 3 and 4 or complete source removal in Alternative 5, is
irreversible.

       2.10.5 Short-term Effectiveness

Short-term impacts of the alternatives increase as more PCB-impacted soils are
excavated and as more clean soil must be brought to the Site. Longer construction times
and greater amounts of off-site soil disposal will result in greater potential for worker
injury and greater amounts of community disturbance related to transporting
contaminated soil off-site.

Alternatives 2, 3, 4, and 5 could have some short-term impacts to workers, the
community, and the environment because of disruption caused by cleanup activities.
These potential impacts could be controlled through adequate monitoring and
appropriate mitigative actions although they vary by alternative.

Alternative 2 presents risks to workers during construction due to pressurized
equipment and lines. Limited exposure to contaminants in impacted soil located below
grade is expected. Level B personal protective equipment is anticipated for use by


                                            43
construction workers during epoxy lining and cleaning of the pipes. The risk to workers
is similar among Alternatives 3, 4, and 5, but is greater than Alternative 2 due to
increased construction duration and excavation. The excavation would result in
additional short-term risks to workers from occupational construction risks associated
with equipment. Such risks would be mitigated by site-specific health and safety
measures, a traffic plan, and a construction quality assurance plan.

Alternative 2 poses the lowest short-term risks to the community due to limited traffic
impacts. The risk to the community is similar between Alternatives 3, 4, and 5, but is
greater than Alternative 2 due to increased construction duration and excavation.
Alternative 5 has the greatest short-term risk to the community with the largest
excavation volume and associated vehicle traffic.

For Alternatives 2, 3, 4, and 5, stormwater rerouting would be required during
construction. Alternative 2 would have the least anticipated environmental impacts of
these alternatives. Alternatives 3, 4, and 5 would have similar environmental risks due
to the generation of dust during excavation and increased greenhouse gas emissions
with associated truck transportation of excavated soil and backfill materials. If
excavation occurs in dry conditions, dust suppression measures would be required to
mitigate fugitive dust emissions. Alternative 5 would have the greatest potential
environmental risks due to the largest excavation volume and greenhouse gas
emissions.

Alternatives 2, 3, and 4 would require evaluation of long-term monitoring results after
construction to determine if RAOs were achieved. Alternative 5 is anticipated to achieve
RAOs immediately following construction completion; however, post-construction
monitoring plan would be included to confirm achievement of the RAOs. Upon
attainment of RAOs under this ROD, a remedy for PCB-impacted sediment in the Lange
and Revere Street canals will be addressed through another Proposed Plan which is
expected to be the last and final decision document for the TMD Site.

       2.10.6 Implementability

Most of the components of Alternative 2, 3, 4, and 5 are proven, readily implementable,
and have been used successfully for other environmental cleanup projects. In areas of
the TMD System that have been previously lined with CIPP liner, the efficacy of installing
an epoxy liner on top of the existing liner is not certain. Alternative 5 is the most
implementable since it does not rely on grouting or lining, but only on excavation. Deep
excavation requires sheet piling and shoring which is readily implementable.

Alternatives 2, 3, 4, and 5 are administratively feasible and would require monitoring
after implementation of the remedy. However, Alternative 5 is the most
administratively feasible because the other alternatives would require institutional



                                           44
controls for materials left in place. Alternatives 2, 3, 4, and 5 all rely on services and
materials which are readily available.

         2.10.7 Cost

In accordance with EPA guidance, FS cost estimates are expected to be accurate within a
range of +50 to -30 percent. A present worth analysis is used to evaluate expenditures
that occur over different time periods by discounting all future costs to a common base
year, usually the current year. This allows the cost of remedial action alternatives to be
compared on the basis of a single figure representing the amount of money that, if
invested in the base year and disbursed as needed, would be sufficient to cover all costs
associated with the remedial action over its planned life.

This criterion evaluates the capital costs (design, geotechnical investigation, and
construction costs) operation and maintenance costs of each alternative. Present-worth
costs have been calculated to help compare costs among alternatives with different
implementation times. Assumptions associated with the present-worth calculations
include a discount rate of 3.5%3 before taxes and after inflation. Alternative 2 is the
least expensive action alternative ($8.9 million). Alternative 3 is the next most costly
alternative ($12.5 million), followed by Alternative 4 ($17.3 million). Alternative 5 is the
most-costly alternative ($25.3 million). A final cost estimate for the selected action will
be developed and refined during the remedial design process.

         2.10.8 State/Support Agency Acceptance

EGLE has concurred with the selection of Alternative 5. EGLE’s concurrence letter is
included in Appendix B.

         2.10.9 Community Acceptance

This criterion considers the community’s support of, reservations about, or opposition
to the preferred alternative and other alternatives identified in the Proposed Plan.

EPA received comments during the public comment period and these comments are
addressed in the Responsiveness Summary, which is included in Part III of this ROD. No
comments were received in opposition to Alternative 5.

2.11     Principal Threat Waste




3 Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget (OMB). 2015. Memorandum for the Heads of

Departments and Agencies: 2016 Discount Rates for Circular No. A-94 was used as guidance for selecting the discount
rate for this cost estimate.


                                                        45
The NCP establishes an expectation that EPA will use treatment to address the principal
threats posed by a site, wherever practical (40 C.F.R. § 300.430(a)(1)(iii)(A)). The
principal threat concept is applied to the characterization of “source material” at a
Superfund Site. Source material is material that includes or contains hazardous
substances, pollutants, or contaminants that act as a reservoir for migration of
contaminants to groundwater, surface water, or air, or acts as a source for direct
exposure. EPA has defined principal threat wastes as those source materials considered
to be highly toxic or highly mobile that generally cannot be reliably contained or would
present a significant risk to human health or the environment should exposure occur.
Low-level threat wastes are those source materials that generally can be reliably
contained and that would present only a low risk in the event of release. Low-level
threat wastes include source materials that exhibit low toxicity, low mobility in the
environment, or are near health-based levels.

The high concentration of PCBs in the backfill and bedding materials surrounding the
TMD pipe and manhole vaults, as well as PCB oil have been identified by EPA as principal
threat wastes at the Site. The Selected Remedy does not employ treatment technologies
to reduce the toxicity, mobility, or volume of the contaminated soils nor satisfy the
statutory preference for treatment of principal threat waste; however, this remedy does
include removal and off-site disposal of PCB-contaminated materials, which are
permanent and irreversible.

2.12    Selected Remedy

EPA is selecting Alternative 5 - Excavate and Replace 6 Manhole Vaults, Segment of the
TMD Pipe including CIPP liner as the remedy.

Summary of the Rationale for the Selected Remedy

Alternative 5, excavation, removal, and replacement of 6 PCB-impacted manhole vaults,
segment of TMD System pipe, and surrounding backfill materials, is the Selected
Remedy. Alternative 5 is recommended because it would be protective of human health
and the environment, would meet the RAOs for this proposed remedial action, and
would meet all federal and state ARARs. Alternative 5 includes proven and effective
technologies for remediating the PCB-impacted TMD System. Alternative 5 does not
employ treatment technologies to reduce the toxicity, mobility, or volume of the
contaminated soils nor satisfy the statutory preference for treatment as a principal
element for principal threat waste; however, Alternative 5 does include removal which
is irreversible.

Alternative 5 would provide long-term and permanent protection against exposure to
contaminated soils by excavating contaminated backfill materials from the TMD System
and transporting the soils off-site for disposal at a permitted RCRA Subtitle D or TSCA
landfill. While Alternative 5 costs are higher than other cleanup alternatives, Alternative


                                            46
5 would provide greater long-term effectiveness and provide additional measures to
mitigate future impacts to the canals by permanently removing the PCB-impacted
portions of the TMD System. Alternative 5 would provide short-term effectiveness when
proper site-specific health and safety measures, monitoring, and mitigative measures
are conducted.

Based on information currently available, EPA believes the Preferred Alternative meets
the threshold criteria and provides the best balance of tradeoffs among the other
alternatives with respect to the balancing and modifying criteria. EPA expects the
Preferred Alternative to satisfy the following statutory requirements of CERCLA
§ 121(b): (1) be protective of human health and the environment; (2) comply with
ARARs; (3) be cost-effective; (4) utilize permanent solutions and alternative treatment
technologies or resource recovery technologies to the maximum extent practicable. As
noted above the Preferred Alternative does not satisfy the preference for treatment as
a principal element but does include removal and off-site disposal of PCB-contaminated
materials, which is permanent and irreversible.

As noted earlier, EPA is managing the contamination at the Site in a phased approach.
Each phase or interim action provides valuable information to inform EPA’s future
decisions about the final remedy. A source control action needs to be taken to prevent
further migration of the contaminants and environmental degradation. In accordance
with EPA’s contamination sediment management strategy “source control” is the first
principle for managing contaminated sediment risk at Superfund Sites. The data
collected during the monitoring plan would be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the
source control remedy selected and determine appropriate measures to assist in
decision making to implement the Lange and Revere canal sediment remedy at nominal
risk of recontamination to the canal sediments.

Description of the Selected Remedy

The Selected Remedy – Alternative 5 – will excavate and replace 6 manhole vaults,
segment of the TMD pipe including the CIPP liner along with PCB-impacted backfill
materials, followed by off-site disposal at an appropriate landfill. The major elements of
the selected remedy include the following:

      Excavation and removal of six vaulted manholes or catch basins, a segment of
       the TMD concrete pipe (approximately 2,110 linear feet) along with the
       surrounding PCB-impacted stone bedding and backfill materials, and proper off-
       site disposal of contaminated materials.

      Installation of new manhole vaults, piping, and stone bedding and backfill
       materials. The TMD piping and vaults will be installed to match the depths of the
       removed piping and vaults and tied into the existing vaults and piping. Sewer
       lines that tie into the affected area of the drain will be reconnected to the new


                                            47
    drain. The remainder of the excavation will be backfilled with native or clean
    backfill materials and completed on the surface to preconstruction conditions.

   Pre-design studies would be required to assess options for the Lakeland Street
    drain, which would include cleaning or replacement of the section of the drain
    and one catch basin on the western end of Lakeland Street, adjacent to the
    commercial property located on the corner of Harper Avenue and Lakeland
    Street as displayed on Figure 16.

   Stormwater diversion would be necessary around the construction area to keep
    water from backing up onto the streets during storm events and to keep the
    work area dry. Since the TMD System always contains water due to its elevation
    relative to Lake St. Clair, the drain would need to be dewatered during
    construction.

   A portable wastewater treatment plant would be used to treat water entering
    the construction area prior to discharge back into the TMD System downgradient
    of the construction area.

   Manhole vaults and piping outside the targeted remediation footprint containing
    low-level residual PCBs would be cleaned (power-washed or similar type
    cleaning method) after the drain is dewatered.

   Pre- and Post-construction monitoring:

       -   The monitoring plan would be developed to include pre- and post-
           construction monitoring of the stormwater inside the TMD System to
           assess if PCB mobility into the drain and subsequently the canals has
           been mitigated by the Selected Remedy. The primary objective of the
           monitoring plan would be to gather sufficient data to determine when
           the sediment remediation could be implemented with nominal risk of
           recontamination to canal sediments.

       -   A goal of the pre-and post-construction monitoring plan would be to
           obtain information within the system such as described below and
           determine when the PCB concentrations in the TMD System reached an
           equilibrium. This approach was selected due to the partially submerged
           outfall into the Lange and Revere Street canals, which results in water
           continually present within the TMD System. Wind direction causes water-
           level fluctuations (seiches) along the shoreline of Lake St. Clair. Onshore
           winds cause water levels to increase in the canals, resulting in a reversed
           water flow from the canals into the TMD System. The reverse flow could
           cause suspended PCB-contaminated sediment to be pulled upstream into
           the TMD System. Due to these system dynamics, instead of determining a


                                       48
           specific ppm goal to trigger the excavation of the sediments, post TMD
           sewer system construction monitoring would focus on achieving an
           equilibrium of PCB concentrations throughout the system.

           For costing purposes, a few basic components of the TMD monitoring
           plan are listed below, which would be further developed during design.

               -   The ongoing source control activities, which tracks sediment
                   concentrations behind the weirs and tests for the presence of
                   PCBs would continue and serve as a substantial data set for
                   comparison to pre-remedy conditions. Please note, that the cost
                   associated with this data collection is not included in the cost
                   estimates listed in this ROD.

               -   Large-volume water samples would be collected from inside the
                   TMD System starting near the Bon Brae Street and Harper Avenue
                   intersection to the TMD outfall. The large-volume water sampling
                   would be performed seasonally at the start of rainfall or flow
                   events where water within the drain is actively moving toward the
                   TMD outfall. Additionally, one or two “non-flow” events to assess
                   static conditions within the drain would help to refine the
                   understanding of the system. This data would also provide insight
                   into the contribution of the contaminated sediments that flush
                   back into the drain from the canals because of the seiche effect.

               -   Sediment sampling in the depositional areas near the heads of the
                   Lange and Revere canals would assess if clean material deposits in
                   the canals over time.

               -   Deployment of sediment traps throughout the canals and analysis
                   of the collected material would provide further understanding
                   and characterization of the sediment deposited within the area.
                   Ideally, traps would be deployed throughout the canals to
                   evaluate the quality of sediment being deposited near the outfall
                   (dominant source would be solids from the drain) and near the
                   ends of the canals (dominated by sediment coming in from Lake
                   St. Clair).

   Institutional Controls would be evaluated in the form of either a deed restriction,
    deed notifications and or other documentation, if PCB-contaminated utility soils
    above the utility worker PRG (21 ppm) remain in place after remedial alternative
    components have been implemented. In addition, EPA would continue to
    coordinate with MCPW, responsible for the upkeep of the TMD System, to serve



                                        49
       as a another means to mitigate potential intrusive activity that could result in
       compromising components of the Selected Remedy.

Summary of Estimated Remedy Costs

The estimated total present worth of implementing the selected remedy is $25,259,782.
This is based upon anticipated costs for pre-remedial activities such as pre-design
sampling and installing the stormwater/vault bypass system, Site preparation,
replacement of Lakeland Street drain, removal, and replacement of TMD pipe and vaults
as well as monitoring and cleaning/power washing. Figure 24 depicts these major cost
items for Alternative 5, the Selected Remedy.
In addition, a detailed cost estimate for Alternative 5 activities can be found in Table 3.
The information in the cost estimate summary table is based on the best available
information regarding the anticipated scope of the Selected Remedy. Changes in the
cost elements are likely to occur as a result of new information and data collected
during the engineering design of the remedy. As noted earlier, this is an order-of-
magnitude engineering cost estimate that is expected to be accurate within a range of
+50 to -30 percent of the actual project cost. Major changes in the remedial action cost
may be documented in the form of a memorandum in Administrative Record file, an
Explanation of Significant Differences, or a ROD Amendment.

Expected Outcomes of the Selected Remedy

The Selected Remedy will reduce risk to human health and environment to levels within
EPA’s acceptable risk range by removing PCB-contaminated soils from the utility
corridor. In addition, this action will remove the PCB source materials and the highly
impacted bedding and backfill materials at selected vaults and TMD pipe, thereby
preventing the continued migration of these secondary PCB source materials to the rest
of the TMD System and reducing environmental degradation of the sediment in the
canals.
Land and groundwater use at the Site is not expected to change in the foreseeable
future. The TMD Site is and will continue to be a mixed residential/ commercial area. As
previously discussed, this ROD does not address groundwater. The RAOs that were
established for this remedial action will be met immediately upon completion of the
remedial action construction work.
The final PCB cleanup levels for utility corridor soils, along with the basis for the cleanup
levels, are as follows:
      Utility corridor soil: 21 ppm, based on site-specific risk-based calculations for
       utility/construction worker exposure scenario (HI of 1, ELCR of 1x10-6).

2.13   Statutory Determinations




                                             50
Under CERCLA Section 121 and the NCP (40 C.F.R. § 300.430(f)(5)(ii)), the lead agency
must select remedies that are protective of human health and the environment, comply
with ARARs (unless a statutory waiver is justified; not applicable here), are cost-
effective, and utilize permanent solutions and alternative treatment technologies (or
resource recovery technologies) to the maximum extent practicable. In addition,
CERCLA includes a preference for remedies that employ treatment that permanently
and significantly reduces the volume, toxicity, or mobility of hazardous wastes as a
principal element and a bias against off-site disposal of untreated wastes. The following
subsections discuss how the Selected Remedy addresses these statutory requirements.

Protection of Human Health and the Environment

The Selected Remedy, Alternative 5, provides overall protection of human health and
the environment by removing exposure above unacceptable risk levels to human
receptors through excavation and proper off-site disposal of contaminated soil from the
TMD utility corridor. The Selected Remedy will reduce potential human health risk levels
to within EPA’s accepted cancer risk range of 1x10-4 to 1x10-6 and/or a non-cancer HI
below 1.

The Selected Remedy will provide adequate steps to reduce the largest volume of PCB-
impacted materials (vaults, TMD pipe and associated backfill materials) by removing
them from the environment. These impacted materials are believed to be the secondary
source that continues to release into the TMD System.

The Selected Remedy will meet RAOs immediately upon completion of construction
work, which is estimated to take an estimated 10 months. The remedy will then be
protective for utility worker purposes. No unacceptable short-term risks are anticipated
by implementation of the remedy. Any short-term risks associated with construction
activities will be minimized through adequate monitoring and appropriate mitigative
measures during construction. In addition, no adverse cross-media impacts are expected
from the Selected Remedy.

Compliance with Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements

The Selected Remedy will comply with federal and state ARARs that pertain to the Site.
Compliance with ARAR is discussed above in Section 2.10.2 and the ARARs for this action
are listed and provided in Table 2.

Cost-Effectiveness

EPA has determined that the Selected Remedy is cost-effective and represents a
reasonable value for the money to be spent. In making this determination the following
definition was used: “A remedy shall be cost-effective if its costs are proportional to its
overall effectiveness.” (NCP § 300.430(f)(1)(ii)(D)). “Overall effectiveness” was evaluated


                                            51
by assessing three of the five balancing criteria (long-term effectiveness and
permanence; reduction of toxicity, mobility, or volume through treatment; and short-
term effectiveness). Overall effectiveness was then compared to costs to determine
cost-effectiveness. The relationship of the overall effectiveness of the remedial action
was determined to be proportional to its costs and hence the remedy represents a
reasonable level of protectiveness for the money spent.

Utilization of Permanent Solutions and Alternative Treatment Technologies (or
Resource Recovery Technologies) to the Maximum Extent Practicable

EPA has determined that the Selected Remedy, Alternative 5, represents the maximum
extent to which permanent solutions and treatment technologies can be utilized in a
practicable manner at the Site. The Selected Remedy satisfies the criteria for long-term
effectiveness by: removing soils with PCB concentrations exceeding selected cleanup
levels from the TMD utility corridor as well as highly PCB-impacted portions of the TMD
System.

The Selected Remedy, Alternative 5, meets both threshold criteria, provides an
effective, permanent solution, is readily implementable, and is cost-effective. In
selecting Alternative 5, EPA also considered the statutory preference for treatment as a
principal element and bias against off-site disposal of untreated waste, as well as state
and community acceptance. While the Selected Remedy does not employ treatment
technologies to reduce the toxicity, mobility, or volume of the contaminated soils nor
satisfy the statutory preference for treatment of principal threat waste, this remedy
does include removal and off-site disposal of PCB-contaminated materials, which are
permanent and irreversible.

Five-Year Review Requirements

CERCLA Section 121(c) and the NCP § 300.430(f)(5)(iii)(C) provide the statutory and legal
basis for conducting FYRs. The first remedial action selected in September 2011 resulted
in hazardous substances remaining on-site above levels that allow for unlimited use and
unrestricted exposure, thereby triggering statutory FYRs to evaluate whether the
remedy is, or will be, protective of human health and the environment. The second FYR
for the Site was completed in March 2022.

2.14   Documentation of Significant Changes

The Proposed Plan identified Alternative 5 as the preferred remedial action alternative
for the PCB-impacted TMD System. The Proposed Plan public comment period ran from
June 12 through July 11, 2023. CERCLA Section 117(b) and NCP § 300.430(f)(5)(iii)
require an explanation of significant changes from the remedy presented in the
Proposed Plan that was published for public comment. Based upon review of all the
written and oral comments submitted during the public comment period, EPA


                                            52
determined that no significant changes to the remedy, as originally identified in the
Proposed Plan, are necessary or appropriate.

PART III: RESPONSIVENESS SUMMARY

In accordance with CERCLA Section 117, 42 U.S.C. § 9617, EPA released the Proposed
Plan and Administrative Record on June 12, 2023; the public comment period ran from
June 12, 2023 through July 11, 2023 to allow interested parties to comment on the
Proposed Plan. In addition, EPA mailed a fact sheet titled “EPA Proposes PCB Cleanup
for Ten-Mile Drain Storm Sewer System” to a list of approximately 1,648 recipients and
posted it to the Site website. This fact sheet described the proposed cleanup
alternatives for the TMD System and EPA’s recommended response actions, and sought
public comment on the proposed cleanup. EPA held an open house and a public meeting
regarding the Proposed Plan on June 22, 2023 at the City of St. Clair Shores Council
Chambers, St. Clair Shores, Michigan. Approximately 20 people attended both the
meeting and open house. Representatives from EPA, EGLE, MDHHS, Harrison Township
Commissioner, MCPW office, staff from Congressman John James’ office, and officials
from the City of St. Clair Shores were present at the public meeting.

This Responsiveness Summary provides both a summary of the public comments EPA
received regarding the Proposed Plan and EPA’s responses to those comments. During
the public comment period, EPA received written comments via regular and electronic
mail and two verbal comments at the public meeting. Copies of all the comments
received (including the verbal comments reflected in the transcript of the public
meeting) are included in the Administrative Record for the Site. The Administrative
Record index is attached as Appendix A to this ROD. EPA, in consultation with EGLE,
carefully considered all comments prior to selecting the remedy documented in this
ROD. A complete copy of the Proposed Plan, Administrative Record, and other
pertinent documents are available at the St. Clair Shores Public Library, 22500 E 11 Mile
Road, St. Clair Shores, Michigan and on EPA’s webpage at www.epa.gov/superfund/ten-
mile-drain.

EPA received comments from various community members as well as a comment letter
from the City of St. Clair Shores. For purposes of this Responsiveness Summary, most
comments are repeated here “as received” by mail or as recorded during the public
meeting, although a few comments are summarized. Comments in their entirety can be
found in the Administrative Record.

1. Comment: One commenter sent in a comment via e-mail. I want to know how the
   PCBs will be prevented from disbursing into the air during excavations. It seems like
   a health hazard to the surrounding residents to stir up the PCBs as they can cycle in
   the air.




                                           53
       Response: The contractor implementing the remedy will be required to follow
       the EPA-approved air monitoring plan. During the construction activities, EPA
       requires real-time air monitoring for particulates, perimeter air sampling and
       personal air sampling activities (construction workers), and the data collected
       will be used to determine if additional dust suppression or other mitigation
       measures are necessary. Air pollution controls will be implemented during
       remedial action activities to provide control for fugitive dust generated. Dust
       generated during excavation activities will be controlled to every extent possible
       with the use of water trucks. In addition to air and dust monitoring and sampling
       activities, strict noise and traffic controls and strategic planning of excavation
       activities will be implemented throughout the remedial action to minimize the
       potential hazards and disruption to residents and businesses.

2. Comment: One commenter with the company ecoSPEARS emailed a comment
   requesting that EPA incorporate within Alternative 5 the option for on-site
   treatment and reuse of contaminated excavated materials, a technology
   implemented by ecoSPEARs. According to ecoSPEARS, this on-site treatment
   technology can remove PCBs from soils & sediments, treat the PCBs, and allows the
   soils & sediments to be backfilled on-site, therefore the excavated soils would not
   need to be shipped off-site for disposal. The commenter included a recent case
   study, and the full comment is included in the Administrative Record.

       Response: EPA considered in situ treatment as a general response action in the
       development of the April 2020 final Sitewide feasibility study, which reviews and
       screens remedial technologies. Traditionally, in situ treatment involves
       excavation of soil, followed by removing the contaminant from the soil.
       Examples include soil washing, and chemical extraction. Due to the limited
       working space in the residential area, in situ treatment was determined to be
       ineffective and was not evaluated further.

3. Comment: A community member who lives along the Lange Street canals supports
   Alternative 5 and sent in a comment via e-mail:
              We live on Lange Street, so I am very concerned about the PCBs and the
              environment. We fully agree with proceeding on Alternative 5 which
              offers a permanent and effective way to clean up the area, and hopefully
              once and for all solve the problem. As with anything done on the water it
              will only get more expensive with time and all the other alternatives
              leave an unclean Lake St Clair with continued high PCB levels and ‘kicking
              the problem down the road…again.’

              I am hopeful that government and the people will agree to Alternative 5,
              which will take care of the problem once and for all and help clean up our
              Great Lakes. It would be most important to keep the largest bodies of
              freshwater lakes anywhere in the World clean for generations to come.


                                           54
              Thanks for helping on this most important project.

       Response: EPA appreciates the support of this community member.

4. Comment: EPA received the following comments from a St. Clair Shores resident via
   email:
              1. Funding for the project:
                      a. From where will the funding of the project come?
                      b. Does project funding necessitate an increase in property
                          or other taxes?
              2. For cleanup Alternatives 2-4:
                      a. How protective are results of each of these Alternatives?
                      b. How long do each of these Alternatives remain protective?
                      c. What are the risks associated with the implementation of
                          each of these Alternatives?

                             Thanks for the opportunity for offer comment and to ask
                             questions regarding the proposed cleanup action.

       Response: To respond to the questions about the funding for the project, EPA
       Region 5 will request site-specific cleanup funding from EPA Headquarters. The
       project funding will not necessitate an increase in local property or other taxes.
       Each year, EPA Headquarters evaluates new cleanup construction projects at
       National Priorities List sites nation-wide and selects new construction projects
       for funding based on the prioritization of those sites that present the greatest
       risk to human health and the environment.

       While Alternatives 2-4 are expected to provide protection of human health and
       the environment, Alternative 5 is expected to provide the greatest level of
       protection by removing the largest volume of impacted material as well as the
       removal and replacement of the PCB-impacted pipe segments. Alternatives 2-4
       include solidification (grouting) as a treatment process to reduce mobility;
       however the grout has a potential to degrade overtime and adversely impact the
       remedy’s long-term effectiveness. It is important to note that after the
       implementation of the Selected Remedy, EPA will conduct a five-year review to
       evaluate whether the remedy is or will be protective of human health and the
       environment.

       As noted in response to comment 1, during construction activities, air and dust
       monitoring will occur along with strict noise and traffic controls. Strategic
       planning of excavation activities will be implemented throughout the remedial
       action to minimize the potential hazards and disruption to the residents and
       businesses.


                                           55
5. Comment: A community member who lives on Lange Street along the canals
   commented during the public meeting, “One of my concerns, and it has been
   addressed here, and I just wanted to get on the record, is that we as residents are
   not paying for this. It is not going to make my taxes higher, within the city of St. Clair
   Shores, within the State of Michigan. It is federally funded so that it’s coming from
   federal funds and it’s not going to show up on a tax increase on my income tax or
   state tax.”

       Response: EPA concurs with and acknowledges this comment. As noted in the
       response to comment 4, EPA Region 5 will need to request site-specific cleanup
       funding from EPA Headquarters, and the funding needs associated with this
       cleanup project will not directly cause a local or state tax increase.

6. Comment: A community member commented during the public meeting that “I
   understand that there’s five alternatives and there’s going to be risk and different
   thought process of what is decided on. I’m just going on record to say that the
   amount of time that this has taken since we first learned about it to now, and to
   know that there may be even more that’s needed, my vote is for alternative five and
   just try to get done with it.”

       Response: EPA appreciates the support of this community member and
       comment is noted.

7. Comment: “I live on Bon Brae Ct, why haven’t I received any information on this
   current project? Are we going to have access to our cul de sac during construction?”

       Response: EPA mailed out a fact sheet summarizing the proposed plan and
       documenting the public comment period in June 2023, at which time the fact
       sheet was also posted to the Site website.

       EPA will develop a traffic plan prior to the start of construction to properly
       manage the truck traffic during construction throughout the remedial action to
       minimize the potential hazards and disruption to the residents and businesses.
       The traffic plan will include measures to protect and divert traffic as well as
       erection and maintenance of adequate warning, danger and direction signs, as
       required by federal, state, and local authorities. EPA will communicate with
       residents before, during and after construction activities to ensure residents
       living on Bon Brae Ct can access their driveways.

8. Comment: A community member who lives on Lakeland Avenue sent a comment
   via email: I am very grateful for the option set out and recognize the need for the
   broadest, most comprehensive cleanup plan for OUR WATERS.



                                             56
   Please, broaden your scope of harmful chemicals in our industries, lawncare and
   food production that infiltrate our air, water and ground. The contamination is far
   greater than PCBs …PFAS, glyphosate in Round Up, etc. Please assess with us the
   population and caretakers the broader scope of the cleanup and devise a more
   comprehensive plan to address the broader range of known contamination.

   ALTERNATIVE #2 to stabilize the environment saves some money. Money to address
   various contamination sources still ACTIVELY-LEGALLY POLLUTING.

       Response: There are two remedial action objectives developed for this remedy
       to address the release of PCBs and exposure pathways that present
       unacceptable current or potential future risk to human health and the
       environment related to the Ten Mile Drain Superfund Site. As noted in Section
       2.8 of the ROD:

       An RAO was developed for the TMD utility corridor soils with consideration of the
       contaminant levels and exposure pathways found to present potentially unacceptable
       risk to human health and the environment as determined by the RI. The HHRA identified
       unacceptable risk to utility workers, which formed the basis for development of the
       following RAO for utility corridor soil:
              Prevent direct human contact with or ingestion and inhalation of PCBs in utility
               corridor soil by current and potential future utility workers during construction
               activities within utility corridors that could result in an unacceptable risk to
               human health.

       A second RAO is proposed to address PCB-impacted oil in the TMD storm sewer system
       and PCB-impacted backfill and bedding materials. It is important to note that this RAO is
       consistent with EPA’s contaminated sediment management strategy:
              Mitigate the migration of PCB contamination and prevent further environmental
               impact to the Lange and Revere Street canal sediments by reducing the
               infiltration of PCB-contaminated oil, contaminated utility trench water, and
               impacted backfill materials into the TMD System.
       The Selected Remedy meets the RAOs and is anticipated to achieve these RAOs
       immediately following construction; however, post-construction monitoring plan
       would be included to confirm achievement of the RAOs. EPA is unable to
       broaden the scope of the remedy to include a contaminant or chemicals beyond
       what is directly related to the definition of the Site, which focuses on several
       blocks where PCBs have been found in the TMD System in significant
       concentrations, as well as areas to which the historical PCB release from a
       commercial property is known to have migrated.

9. Comment: EPA received a comment letter from the City of St. Clair Shores Director
   of Public Works & Water dated July 11, 2023. Overall, the city agrees with agrees
   with Alternative 5, the Selected Remedy, because it does provide the highest level of

                                              57
      risk reduction to the human health and environmental receptors and included the
      following comments:

 I.      While the replacement of the storm drain structures and sections of the pipe
         should reduce the transmission of the PCBs to the receptors, it does not change
         the volume of residuals of PCBs beyond the limits-of-work defined. Secondly, the
         approach completely relies upon engineering controls to provide said reduction in
         the transmission of the PCBs to the utility (interior) and does not take into
         consideration of chemical of concern (COC) migrating through the utility backfill
         to lower gradients of said utility beyond the limits-of-work.

             Response: It is important to note that the Selected Remedy, Alternative 5,
             will not only remove a portion of the PCB-impacted storm pipe along with
             selected vaults within the targeted remediation footprint, but also the
             surrounding PCB-impacted backfill materials, thereby reducing the
             transmission of PCBs. The remediation footprint or as referred to in the
             comment “limits-of-work defined” is a result of remedial and source area
             investigation activities. The native materials at the TMD Site are generally
             very tight clays, which do not allow for easy migration of contamination. EPA
             believes the Selected Remedy is expected to provide the greatest long-term
             effectiveness and permanence with complete source removal. In addition,
             EPA will develop a pre-and post- construction monitoring plan that will
             sample areas beyond the remediation footprint, and this data will be used to
             evaluate the effectiveness of the source control selected in this remedy, as
             well as to confirm that goals of the remedy have been achieved, and to
             determine when the sediment remediation could be implemented with
             nominal risk of recontamination to the canal sediments.

II.      Why is structure M7178 (63,000 PCB units) not considered for removal?

             Response: EPA collected wipe/roller samples from 92 manholes within the
             TMD System. The location of wipe/roller samples collected in the TMD
             System are displayed on Figure 8. Since the manhole samples were collected
             using the wipe/roller method, the data are only used for relative comparison
             purposes versus comparison to cleanup criteria. The units are displayed in
             PCB units and not as a concentration of total PCBs (ppm or ppb). Thirty-one
             of the manholes sampled had detectable concentrations of PCBs. As
             discussed in Section 2.5 of this ROD, the greater concentrations (more than
             100,000 PCB units) were found along Lakeland Street, Bon Brae Street, and
             Jefferson Avenue. The wipe/roller sample collected at M7178 of 63,000 PCB
             units located upstream of M7179 on Bon Brae Street is not to be compared
             to PCB-impacted utility corridor total PCBs backfill sample results. The
             wipe/roller sample results were another line of evidence in the source area
             investigation to determine the location of the source and are more


                                             58
          qualitative in nature. During the source area investigation soil samples were
          collected at various depths (0-3’, 3-10’ and 10-13’, 13-15’) adjacent to M7178
          with highest concentration of 3.8 ppm at 0-3’. Therefore, M7178 is not
          considered for removal and is outside the Ten-Mile Drain Remediation Target
          Area as noted on Figure 16.

III.   Has the backfill supporting at basin J01 been verified as not been re-impacted
       since it was replaced (2015)?

          Response: While EPA has not collected backfill data at the basin of J01 after
          its installation in 2015, review of both trench water data collected from
          monitoring/recovery wells installed in the backfill materials adjacent to J01,
          sediment and PCB data collected from inside J01 indicate the manhole has
          not been significantly re-impacted. Since 2015, EPA has collected bi-monthly
          data from the monitoring/recovery well set in the backfill adjacent to M7179
          and J01. These wells were installed to collect trench water adjacent to the
          newly installed manhole vaults and also to extract PCB oil if buildup of oil
          occurred in the utility trench backfill materials. The first round of data
          collected in January 2016 yielded the highest mean water PCB concentration
          of 3.5 micrograms per liter (µg/L) of all years sampled. Four years later in
          2020, the mean water PCB concentration was 0.36 µg/L, and 0.26 µg/L in
          2021. In addition, EPA collects data inside J01 as part of the ongoing source
          control activities. Overall, the trend of data (sediment/snare) collected inside
          the drain and trench water data collected within the TMD System during the
          bi-monthly sampling events has resulted in general downward trend. For
          additional information about the trends of the ongoing bi-monthly source
          control data, refer to the 2022 Ten Mile Drain Five-Year Review Report.

IV.    Are structures M6971 (6,400 PCB units), M6969 (10,000 PCB units), and M6961
       (67,000 PCB units) scheduled for removal?

          Response: The two manhole structures (M6971 and M6969) located on the
          corner of Jefferson and Bon Brae, and the manhole structure (M6961)
          located north on Jefferson Avenue near the intersection of
          Madison/Jefferson are not scheduled for removal. As noted in response to
          the City’s II comment above, the wipe/roller samples collected at these
          manhole vaults is not to be compared to PCB-impacted utility corridor
          backfill samples. The wipe/roller sample results were another line of
          evidence in the source area investigation to determine the location of the
          source and are more qualitative in nature. Therefore, M6971, M6969, and
          M6961 are not considered for removal and are outside the Ten-Mile Drain
          Remediation Target Area as noted on Figure 16.




                                           59
  V.    Are the remaining stormwater or outfalls being jetted and cleaned as part of the
        work at completion of the remediation efforts?

           Response: After the implementation of the remedy, EPA will power-wash (or
           employ a similar type of cleaning method) segments of the drain (vaults and
           piping) outside the targeted remediation footprint containing low-level
           residual PCBs – refer to Figure 16.

 VI.    Is the stormwater to be sampled at M4332 prior to and after the work is
        completed to determine if the work resulted in any reduction of PCBs?

           Response: In April 2012, EPA started routine monthly source control
           activities, which were reduced in June 2019 to every other month. In general,
           source control sampling activities include placement, and/or removal of
           absorbent snares, sampling of any sediment and oil present, and proper
           disposal of saturated snares and PCB-contaminated sediment inside the TMD
           System. Samples are collected at nineteen (19) manhole locations, of which
           seventeen (17) have weirs installed inside the TMD System. M4332 is
           included in these sampling events (Refer to Figure 5). These activities will
           continue post-remedy and will be included as a component of data collected
           for the post-construction monitoring plan associated with Alternative 5.

VII.    When the structures/pipe are removed and remediated, will the surrounding
        area be sampled for PCBs to determine residual levels?

           Response: EPA will continue source control sampling activities and develop a
           robust pre-and post- construction monitoring plan to determine residual PCB
           levels in the TMD System. In addition, performance standards (visual
           standards, depth standards based on lithological characteristics, and lateral-
           distance standards) would also be used during the remedial action. Further
           details are provided in Section 2.9.3 Discussion of Performance Standards for
           Remedial Alternatives in this ROD.

VIII.   As proposed, a large section of Bon Brae Street and its storm drain system will be
        removed along with sections of Lakeland Street and Harper Avenue. Has it been
        considered to separate the PCBs and stormwater flow from J01 to M4281 in
        place of the proposed work? In summary, separate the known PCB contamination
        and large stormwater flow away by the flowing approach (see Figure 1 below):




                                            60
•   Install a new pipe between (J01, through Lakeland Street to Jefferson Ave
    M6968) with capacity to manage the flow from J01 through Lakeland
    Street.

    Response: Currently the pipe on Lakeland Street is a 2-foot pipe and
    approximately 2 feet below grade compared to the main TMD pipe on
    Harper and Jefferson which is 6-foot pipe approximately 15 ft bgs. A
    significant cost increase would occur to replace and install a new larger
    pipe (4 feet larger) that requires significant excavation in the dense
    native clay to lay the new pipe 15 feet bgs versus the current pipe on
    Lakeland is at 2 feet below grade. Re-engineering the flow of the water
    and installing a new larger pipe through Lakeland Street would be
    considered a betterment. In general terms, features or modifications that
    accommodate redevelopment at a Superfund site and increase the cost
    of the remedy but are not required for its implementation are considered
    “betterments” or enhancements. Enhancements can include roads and
    parking lots, utility infrastructure, or athletic field lighting if they are
    required solely to support the planned future use. Construction of
    enhancements are beyond EPA’s legal authority and, therefore, cannot
    be financed using EPA funds nor can EPA require a PRP to pay for the
    enhancements. Although they cannot be funded by EPA, enhancements
    can be included in the remedial action if they are consistent, and do not


                                 61
    conflict, with the Selected Remedy and if the cost is covered by another
    party, such as the local government, a developer, the landowner, or a
    PRP. Since EPA considers installing a new larger pipe between, J01,
    through Lakeland Street to Jefferson Avenue an enhancement, which is
    beyond EPA’s legal authority and there is no viable PRP to pay for this
    enhancement, EPA will proceed with implementing the Selected Remedy.

•   Seal and abandon existing stormwater utility along Bon Brae Street and
    install a smaller and/or new stormwater utility between M7182 and
    M4432 to manage the water from this section only (i.e., shallow small
    stormwater flow). Also, seal and abandon the old utility along Lakeland
    Street or connect the existing shallow inlets directly to the large new
    diameter pipe. (i.e., remove the PCBs from the point it reaches the
    receptor).
        o This would result in separating the PCBs (secondary source – Bon
             Brae Street and Lakeland Street) and not require the utility to be
             lined. Or provide a non- engineering control to disconnect the
             PCBs from the receptor.
        o This would transfer the majority of the transfer media
             (stormwater) away from the PCB contaminated (secondary
             source) or reduce the transport mechanism to the receptors. This
             may also reduce the potential for PCBs to enter M6971 and
             M6969 (i.e., lower flow).
        o This would also allow the stormwater flow to be managed more
             efficiently during the work and prevent stormwater treatment
             from the point of transfer to the point of discharge during
             construction. Secondly, while not removing the structures and pipe
             along Brae Street a significant cost saving could be achieved by
             not removing the PCBs.

    Response: EPA’s Selected Remedy will remove the PCB contamination
    from the TMD System, thereby reducing the potential for the
    contamination to migrate into vaults M7182 and M4432. EPA has
    considered sealing or containment as a remedial technology in the
    proposed alternatives 2, 3, and 4. The comparison of the remedial
    alternatives in Comparative Analysis of Alternatives Section of this ROD
    highlights the pros/cons of grouting, which is an example of containment
    technology in these alternatives. Grouting or any similar type of
    containment technology may degrade over time and ultimately impacts
    the remedy’s long-term effectiveness. While immobilization of the
    impacted soils through solidification reduces mobility of waste, it will not
    significantly reduce toxicity or volume of wastes in the TMD System.




                                 62
IX.   Has the potential for vacuum extraction of the PCBs been considered as an
      alternative to the physical removal of the soils under the structures and the
      pipeline backfill? If so, could chemical, biological, or granulated activated carbon
      (GAC) be considered as an agent to be reintroduced back into the utility media to
      degrade or limit their future desorption into said utilities?

         Response: Currently, EPA has not considered vacuum extraction. EPA’s
         Selected Remedy will remove both the impacted backfill materials along with
         the concrete pipe. EPA may consider and further evaluate the spreading of
         granulated activated carbon (GAC) in the development of the design of the
         remedy.

X.    Has the Preliminary Remediation Goals (PRG) of 21,000 ppb been approved?
         a. For soil, a PRG of 21 parts per million (ppm) total PCBs was selected to be
             protective of utility workers. This PRG for utility workers is based on a site-
             specific utility/construction worker exposure scenario, which includes
             workers in contact with soil beneath the road surface or in utility corridors
             (0 to 10 feet) and assumes an exposure frequency of 20 days per year, an
             exposure duration of 5 years, and a target Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk
             (ELCR) of 1×10-6. This PRG would be protective of human health because
             it is based on the site-specific exposure scenario with a target ELCR of 10-
             6.
         b. Does the PRG apply to all the Aroclors combined or just Aroclor 1248? For
             example, in 2020, 3.5 ppm was set for Aroclor 1254.

         c. The PRG 21,000 parts per billion (ppb) exceeds the 16,000 ppb Soil Direct
            Contact Cleanup Criteria enforced by the Michigan Department of
            Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) Part 201. Has this been
            considered?

             EGLE Part 201 (T): “Refer to the federal Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), 40 C.F.R.
             §761, Subpart D and 40 C.F.R. §761, Subpart G, to determine the applicability of TSCA
             cleanup standards. Subpart D and Subpart G of 40 C.F.R. §761 (July 1, 2001) are adopted
             by reference in these rules and are available for inspection at the DEQ, 525 West Allegan
             Street, Lansing, Michigan. Copies of the regulations may be purchased, at a cost as of
             the time of adoption of these rules of $55, from the Superintendent of Documents,
             Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20401, or from the DEQ, RRD, 525 West
             Allegan Street, Lansing, Michigan 48933, at cost. Alternatives to compliance with the
             TSCA standards listed below are possible under 40 C.F.R. §761 Subpart D. New releases
             may be subject to the standards identified in 40 C.F.R. §761, Subpart G. Use Part 201 soil
             direct contact cleanup criteria in the following table if TSCA standards are not
             applicable.”

         Response: (a) Yes, EPA selected a cleanup goal for soil of 21 ppm total PCBs
         to be protective of the utility worker in the September 24, 2018, ROD. EPA
         issued a ROD to address PCB-contamination in near-surface soils on


                                               63
          residential yards, right-of-way, and commercial properties. Final PCB cleanup
          levels for near surface soils, along with the basis for the cleanup levels, were
          documented and selected in the 2018 ROD. EPA selected a cleanup goal of
          allowing no more than 1 ppm of PCBs in residential soil, no more than 10
          ppm in soil (commercial property) and no more than 21 ppm of PCBs in utility
          corridor soil to be protective of the utility workers. The cleanup goal
          considers the current and future exposure scenarios: ingestion, dermal
          contact, and inhalation exposure pathways.

          Response: (b) The utility worker PRG applies to total PCBs (all aroclors
          combined) and does not reference a specific aroclor. In 2020, EPA conducted
          a time-critical removal action (TCRA) to remove PCB-contaminated soil at
          eight properties (6 public right-of-way and 2 residential yards) with soil
          sample results above EPA established Removal Management Levels (RMLs)
          and Regional Screening Levels. RMLs are established by aroclor and the PCB
          concentrations at the eight properties posed a threat of a release of
          hazardous substances with the presence of PCBs in surficial soils at high
          levels. Therefore, the remedial program requested removal program
          consultation regarding the need for expedited removal of PCB-contaminated
          soils at these selected properties. The details of this action are documented
          in the 2020 Action Memorandum for the 2020 TCRA.

          Response: (c) The EGLE human health risk-based Direct Contact Criteria
          (DCC) of 16 ppm of soil for PCBs is related to commercial properties and
          considers the current and future exposure to impacted soil by the
          “commercial worker”. EPA considers commercial soil a different property
          type/different exposure scenario than utility corridor soil. Therefore, as
          noted above EPA selected commercial soil cleanup of 10 ppm, which is more
          conservative than EGLE’s soil DCC of 16 ppm and 21 ppm for the utility
          corridor soil cleanup goal for the utility worker.

XI.    Has the cleanup criteria for the inhalation pathways for utility workers been
       calculated?

          Response: As noted in the response above, the utility corridor soil PCB
          cleanup level of 21 ppm took into consideration various exposure pathways:
          ingestion, dermal contact, and inhalation pathways.

XII.   Has the residential indoor air inhalation risk been discussed and evaluated? As
       such, is the extent of impact defined to ensure that the pathway is not relative for
       surrounding residential occupants?

          Response: EPA considered “ambient air” as a potential exposure pathway
          and evaluated its potential risk in the site-specific human health risk


                                           64
           assessment report. The rationale for assessing the ambient air pathway is
           that residents may inhale contaminated surface soil dust. The 2017 Human
           Health Risk Assessment identified PCBs as the only contaminant of concern in
           the near-surface soils at the Site and evaluated potential risks to current and
           future residents (adults and young children), through incidental ingestion,
           dermal absorption, and as noted above – inhalation of soil/dust. Please refer
           to Attachment C for risk assessment table and figures that further
           demonstrate this evaluation. Therefore, the selected residential PCB soil
           cleanup goal of 1 ppm will reduce risks to human health and environment
           within EPA’s acceptable risk ranges. In addition, refer to EPA’s response to
           comment 1 that details the air monitoring that will occur during construction
           activities.

XIII.   Have there been considerations to reevaluate potential re-contamination of the
        surrounding Lange and Revere Street canals?

           Response: In 2011, EPA sampling activities confirmed that the sediments in
           the Lange and Revere Street canals have been re-contaminated after the
           2002 cleanup activities. This information is summarized in the Site
           Characteristics section of this ROD and documented in the RI Report. The
           scope of this remedy is to mitigate the PCB-impacted TMD pipe, manholes,
           and backfill materials that continue to release PCB contamination into the
           drain and ultimately the sediments in the Lange and Revere canals. In
           addition, once the Selected Remedy is implemented the monitoring plan will
           not only collect data from inside the TMD storm sewer system, but also from
           the canals to confirm the effectiveness of the implemented remedy and to
           confirm that upgradient PCB concentrations are no longer a source of
           contamination to the canals. The details of this monitoring plan will be
           further developed during the remedial design. EPA intends to select and
           implement a final remedy for the canals in the future.




                                           65
FIGURES
FIGURE 1
            FIGURE 2
Ten Mile Drain Storm Sewer System
              FIGURE 3
Lange and Revere Street Canals (outfall)
  FIGURE 4
Example of a Weir
   FIGURE 5
Locations of Weirs
         FIGURE 6
Remaining CIPP Liner Locations
          FIGURE 7
Cross-Sections of Pipe and System
        FIGURE 8
Manhole PCB Sampling Results
           FIGURE 9
Ten-Mile Drain: Current Conditions
          FIGURE 10
Sediment PCB Concentration Trends
         FIGURE 11
Snare PCB Concentration Trends
             FIGURE 12
Storm Sewer System Conceptual Site Model
           FIGURE 13
Canal Property Conceptual Site Model
                           FIGURE 14
Stormwater Runoff to Old Martin Drain – Contaminant Transport Model
          FIGURE 15
Surface Soil Conceptual Site Model
            FIGURE 16
Ten-Mile Drain Remediation Target Area
                                FIGURE 17
Alternative 2: Grout Backfill Materials and Install Liner in Impacted Manholes
                                  and Pipes
     FIGURE 18
Alternative 2: Plan View
                                 FIGURE 19
Alternative 3: Remove and Replace Vaulted Manholes, Grout Backfill, and Install
                      Liner in Vaults and Impacted Pipes
     FIGURE 20
Alternative 3: Plan View
     FIGURE 21
Alternative 4: Plan View
                            FIGURE 22
Alternative 5: Remove and Replace Impacted Vaulted Manholes and Pipes
     FIGURE 23
Alternative 5: Plan View
           FIGURE 24
Alternative 5: Major Cost Components
TABLES
                                                                          TABLE 2
    a) Chemical-Specific ARARs


   Media/Action                      Requirements                           Prerequisite                            Comments                          Citation(s)

TMD System; >50 ppm   PCB waste management and disposal           Presence of PCBs in excavated        The EPA Region 5 TSCA coordinator       40 CFR § 761.61(a) and
PCBs) – chemical      regulations shall apply to all soils and    soils and sediments gathered from    can approve proposed cleanup and        40 CFR § 761.61(c) –
specific              sediments that are above 50 ppm PCBs.       the TMD system that are found to     management of PCB remediation           Toxic Substances
                      These materials will be disposed of at a    be above 50 ppm PCBs. This           waste. The CERCLA risk assessment       Control Act (TSCA)
                      TSCA-permitted facility.                    allows for a risk-based cleanup. –   process is being used to develop        Regulations
                                                                  Applicable                           numeric and non-numeric cleanup         Federal
                                                                                                       goals for TMD System based on the
                                                                                                       RAOs.


TMD System; PCBs      EPA Regional Screening Level Table for      Presence of PCBs in excavated     Screening levels developed using risk      EPA Regional Screening
only                  Chemical Contaminants at Superfund Sites    soils and sediments gathered from assessment guidance from the EPA           Level Table for Chemical
                      establishes levels that may be considered   the TMD system – TBC              Superfund program. They are risk-          Contaminants at
                      for use as initial cleanup goal.                                              based concentrations derived from          Superfund Sites
                                                                                                    standardized equations combining           Federal
                                                                                                    exposure information assumptions
                                                                                                    with EPA toxicity data. Screening levels
                                                                                                    are considered to be protective for
                                                                                                    humans over a lifetime. However,
                                                                                                    screening levels do not address non-
                                                                                                    human health endpoints, such as
                                                                                                    ecological impacts.




                                                                              1
     b) Action-Specific ARARs


    Media/Action                      Requirements                               Prerequisite                             Comments                           Citation(s)

TMD System;            Bulk PCB remediation waste containing           PCB wastes generated from the        Excavated soils and excavation water    40 CFR § 761.65(c)(9) —
Generation of wastes   greater than 50 milligrams per kilogram (50     cleanup of spills or releases of     will be contained in leak-proof,        PCB Storage for Disposal
with greater than 50   ppm) of PCBs may be stored onsite for up to     PCBs (i.e., PCB remediation waste)   covered containers, located on a liner, Federal
ppm PCBs               180 days, provided:                             that are above 50 milligrams per     and directly taken to a TSCA-permitted
                                                                       kilogram (50 ppm) of PCBs. –         facility.
                            -   controls are in place for prevention
                                                                       Applicable
                                of dispersal by wind or generation
                                of leachate.
                            -   Storage site requirements include a
                                foundation below the liner, a liner,
                                a cover, and a run-on control
                                system.

Generation of          The water decontamination standard for          If excavation water is generated     There is no established limit for PCBs     40 CFR § 761.79(b)1 –
Excavation Water and   unrestricted use is 0.5 µg/L PCBs. The          during construction to keep the      in the stormwater drainage permit The      Decontamination
Decontamination        standard for water discharged to treatment      area dry, the rainwater and/or       City of St. Clair Shores and EPA agreed    Standard for PCB
Water                  works or a navigable water is <3 µg/L PCBs.     groundwater must be treated to       during the vault removal that the TSCA     Contaminated Water
                                                                       the standard prior to discharge      decontamination discharge criteria of      Federal
                                                                       back into the sewer system. -        <3 µg/L PCBs from remediation water
                                                                       Applicable                           treatment systems was compliant.
                                                                                                            Manhole water, sediment, and
                                                                                                            accumulated excavation water will be
                                                                                                            treated to <3 µg/L PCB prior to
                                                                                                            discharge to the TMD storm sewer
                                                                                                            system which flows to the canals.


                                                                                                            Protection/controls will be in place for
                                                                                                            diverting native stormwater to the
                                                                                                            sanitary manholes. Native stormwater
                                                                                                            is not a remediation waste and will not
                                                                                                            undergo treatment.




                                                                                   2
Grout Injections        Shall not inject material into the subsurface Actions that involve the injection   The placement of fluids into the          40 CFR Part 144; 40 CFR
                        without satisfying the Underground            of grout into the subsurface. –      subsurface are regulated to prevent       Part 146, Subpart F –
                        Injection Control Program for Class V         Applicable                           contamination of underground              Underground Injection
                        injection wells. EPA requirements are to                                           sources of drinking water. The            Control Program
                        submit inventory information and verify that                                       Underground Injection Control             Federal
                        the party is authorized (i.e., allowed) to                                         Program regulates well construction,
                        inject grout; to operate the wells in a way                                        well operation, and monitoring. EPA
                        that does not endanger drinking water                                              regulates the Underground Injection
                        sources; and to properly close the Class V                                         Control Program in Michigan, including
                        injection well when it is no longer being                                          for Class V wells. If grout is injected
                        used.                                                                              into the subsurface, then Class V well
                                                                                                           requirements must be satisfied.


Management of           Shall utilize solid waste management           Generation of non-hazardous         Surface concrete and soils to 5 feet      NREPA Part 115, Solid
excavated               practices involving containment of             solid waste. – Relevant and         deep are not known to be                  Waste Management).
surface/roadway         nonhazardous waste onsite, and remedial        Appropriate                         contaminated with PCBs and will be        (MCL 324.11501 et seq.)
concrete from TMD       actions                                                                            managed as solid waste.                   Mich. Admin Code R
System; top 3 feet of                                                                                                                                299.4101-4122 Formerly
soil; Refuse                                                                                                                                         known as Act 641 (1978)
                                                                                                                                                     State
Disposal of             Shall utilize appropriate containers used to   Generation of non-hazardous         It is anticipated that site solid waste   NREPA Part 115, Solid
surface/roadway         transport solid waste, comply with             solid waste. – Relevant and         that is not PCB remediation waste will    Waste Management).
concrete from TMD       geographic limitations on where non-           Appropriate                         be disposed of in a commercial RCRA       (MCL 324.11501 et seq.)
System; top 3 feet of   hazardous solid waste can be disposed, and                                         Subtitle D facility approved under the    Mich. Admin Code R
soil; Refuse            utilize an appropriate RCRA Subtitle D                                             CERCLA Offsite Rule.                      299.4101 -4122
                        facility for disposal.                                                                                                       Formerly known as Act
                                                                                                                                                     641 (1978)
                                                                                                                                                     State




                                                                                   3
Generation of          Prohibits direct or indirect discharge to    Discharge of excavation water and Protection/controls will be in place for
                                                                                                                                            Part 31, Water
Excavation Water and   ground or surface waters of the state that   decontamination water –           diverting native stormwater to the    Resources Protection, of
Decontamination        are or may become injurious to the           Applicable                        sanitary manholes. Native stormwater  the NREPA, 1994 PA
Water                  environment or public health.                                                  is not a remediation waste and will not
                                                                                                                                            451, as amended (MCL
                                                                                                      undergo treatment.                    324.3104-324.3117),
                           -   No standard for native stormwater
                                                                                                                                            PCBs only Part 4:
                           -   The standard for water discharged                                                                            Michigan water quality
                                                                                                       The City of St. Clair Shores and EPA
                               to treatment works or a navigable                                                                            standards for surface
                                                                                                       agreed during the vault removal that
                               water is <3 µg/L PCBs.                                                                                       waters to protect public
                                                                                                       the TSCA decontamination discharge
                                                                                                       criteria of <3 µg/L PCBs from        health and welfare,
                                                                                                       remediation water treatment systems enhance and maintain
                                                                                                       was compliant. Manhole water,        water quality, and
                                                                                                       sediment, and accumulated excavation protect the state’s
                                                                                                       water will be treated to <3 µg/L PCB natural resources, PCBs
                                                                                                       prior to discharge to the TMD storm  only Part 8: Water
                                                                                                       sewer system which flows to the      quality-based effluent
                                                                                                       canals.                              limits for toxic
                                                                                                                                            chemicals, PCBs only
                                                                                                                                                  State
Generation of          Defines effluent guidelines based on actual Discharge of excavation water and   Protection/controls will be in place for   Part 31, Water
Excavation Water and   water quality, receiving stream properties,   decontamination water –           diverting native stormwater to the         Resources Protection, of
Decontamination        and other appropriate water quality criteria. Applicable                        sanitary manholes. Native stormwater       the NREPA, 1994 PA
Water                  Provides criteria and standards for the                                         is not a remediation waste and will not    451, as amended (MCL
                       National Pollutant Discharge Elimination                                        undergo treatment. St. Clair Shores        324.3104-324.3117),
                       System (NPDES) and effluent standards for                                       and EPA agreed during the vault            PCBs only Part 4:
                       toxic pollutants. This is the implementing                                      removal that the TSCA                      Michigan water quality
                       statute for the federally delegated NPDES                                       decontamination discharge criteria of      standards for surface
                       program.                                                                        3 ppb PCBs from remediation water          waters to protect public
                                                                                                       treatment systems was compliant.           health and welfare,
                                                                                                       Manhole water, sediment, and               enhance and maintain
                                                                                                       accumulated excavation water will be       water quality, and
                                                                                                       treated to 3 ppb PCB prior to discharge    protect the state’s
                                                                                                       to the storm sewer system which flows      natural resources, PCBs
                                                                                                       to the canals.                             only Part 8: Water
                                                                                                                                                  quality-based effluent
                                                                                                                                                  limits for toxic
                                                                                                                                                  chemicals, PCBs only
                                                                                                                                                  State

                                                                                4
Off-site Transport of   Transporters of liquid industrial by-products   Transport of excavation water and Liquid industrial waste includes storm   Act 451 of 1994 (451-
Excavation Water and    are required to be registered and permitted     decontamination water –           sewer cleanout residue and water         1994-II-3-121) Part 121 -
Decontamination         to transport any liquid wastes offsite and to   Applicable                        from excavations. Liquid industrial      Liquid Industrial By-
Water                   adhere to recordkeeping requirements                                              waste that is generated will be          Products
                        including shipping documents.                                                     managed in accordance with               State
                                                                                                          substantive requirements while onsite,
                                                                                                          and full compliance will be adhered to
                                                                                                          when the materials are shipped
                                                                                                          offsite.
Excavation Water and    Any compound or product that contains 1%        Storage of more than 440 pounds   Secondary containment will need to       NREPA 451 of 1994, R.
Decontamination         or more, by weight, of a “polluting material”   excavation water and              address 100 percent of the tank          324.2001-324.2009 (Part
Water                   (which includes PCBs) that is stored            decontamination water in an       volume if greater than 1 percent         5 Spillage of Oil and
                        outdoors in a quantity of more than 440         outdoor setting on-site. –        concentration of PCBs are stored         Polluting Materials)
                        pounds must conduct:                            Applicable                        onsite.                                  State
                            -    Adequate surveillance of all storage
                                 areas;
                            -    Adequate secondary containment;
                                 and
                            -    Timely notify and report any spills
                                 in excess of a threshold reporting
                                 quantity.




                                                                                    5
Grout Injection    Wastewater associated with a remedial           Remedial actions that involve the    Applicable if injections of              NREPA, R 323.2210(u) –
                   action discharge that are:                      injection of grout into the          grout/surfactant will impact             Groundwater Quality
                                                                   subsurface that will impact          groundwater during the remedial          and R 323.2204 –
                       -    at or below the residential criteria
                                                                   groundwater. – Applicable            action. CERCLA actions are exempt        Groundwater Quality
                            authorized by Section 20101a(1) of
                                                                                                        from administrative requirements,        State
                            NREPA or Section 21304(a) of
                            NREPA may be discharged without                                             including administrative reviews and
                            a permit if the discharge                                                   permitting.
                            requirements of NREPA Rule
                            323.2204 are satisfied;
                       -    above the residential criteria
                            authorized by Section 20101a(1) of
                            NREPA or Section 21304(a) of
                            NREPA may be discharged without
                            a permit if the remediation plan has
                            been approved by the department
                            division that has compliance
                            oversight.

TMD System Waste       -    Design, construct, and complete an     Earth changes that disturb one       Relevant and appropriate to the          NREPA, R 323.1709 –
                            earth change in a manner that          acre or more or are within 500       excavation of highly contaminated soil   Erosion and Sediment
                            limits the exposed area for the        feet of the water’s edge of a lake   in close proximity to a storm sewer      Control
                            shortest period of time.               or stream. – Relevant and            system that discharges to nearby         State
                       -    Remove sediment caused by              Appropriate                          waters of the state.
                            accelerated soil erosion from runoff
                            water before it leaves the site of
                            the earth change.
                       -    Design temporary and permanent
                            control measures to limit the water
                            flow to non-erosive velocities.
                       -    Temporary measures shall be
                            installed before or upon
                            commencement of the earth
                            change and be maintained on a
                            daily basis.
                   Permanent measures shall be installed
                   within five calendar days after the final
                   grading.

                                                                                6
TMD System Waste      Implement fugitive dust control measures,    Initiation of construction activity   While the administrative requirements   NREPA, R 336.1372(8)(b)
                      including, but not limited to:               where contaminated soil may           do not apply to CERCLA sites, Part 55   – Control of Fugitive
                                                                   become airborne during                of NREPA applies to remedial            Dust
                           -   Spraying of all work areas with
                                                                   construction, renovation, or          alternatives that generate air          State
                               water or dust suppressant
                                                                   demolition activities – Relevant      emissions (including dust from
                               compounds; and
                                                                   and Appropriate                       excavation activities).
                           -   Covering debris and excavated
                               earth.

    ARAR = Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirement
    CFR = Code of Federal Regulations
    TMD System: PCB-impacted manholes, concrete storm sewer pipe, backfill soil: Sediment; Lange and River Street Canals
    > = greater than
    µg/L = microgram(s) per liter
    CERCLA = Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980
    EPA = U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
    MCL = Michigan Compiled Laws
    NREPA = The Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act
    PCB = polychlorinated biphenyl
    ppm = part(s) per million
    RAO = remedial action objective
    TBC = to be considered
    TMD = Ten-Mile Drain
    TSCA = Toxic Substances Control Act




                                                                                7
TABLE 3:
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUMMARY OF ALTERNATIVE 5 COSTS
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE: ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
                                                                                  REMEDIAL ALTERNATIVE 5


                                                                                EXCAVATE, REMOVE & REPLACE
GENERAL RESPONSE ACTIONS
                                                                               IMPACTED VAULTED MANHOLES &
                                                                                           PIPES


DURATION (MONTHS)                                                                           10
No Action                                                                                  $0.00
Pre-Remediation Activities/General Conditions                                          $9,637,612.57               Attachment
       Remedial Design (6% of Construction)                                            $1,258,770.68         6% of Consturction Costs
       Pre-Design Sampling/Testing                                                      $105,480.00                A-4B Item 1
       Preremediation Sitework/General Conditions                                      $1,614,057.89               A-4B Item 2
       Stormwater/Vault By-Pass System (no treatment required)                         $3,955,500.00               A-4B Item 3
       Drain Dewatering/Pumping (Contact Water Management and
                                                                                       $2,703,804.00               A-4B Item 4
       Treatment)
       EPA Oversight                                                                   $1,065,214.10         5% of Construction Costs
DRAIN/VAULT REMEDIATION                                                               $12,600,669.38
Institutional Controls                                                                  $118,440.00                   A-4C
       Deed Restrictions                                                                 $28,764.00
       Permits or Permit Equivalences                                                    $89,676.00
Containment                                                                                $0.00
       Epoxy Liner (includes power washing prep)                                           $0.00
In-Situ Treatment                                                                          $0.00
       Grout Backfilling/Solidification                                                    $0.00
Replacement of Lakeland St Drain                                                        $439,967.58                   A-4F
       IDW Survey                                                                        $23,908.80
       Drain/Catch Basin Replacement                                                     $79,102.20
       Roadwork/Excavation/Backfill                                                     $140,007.84
       Soil Disposal TSCA/RCRA: Subtitle C                                                 $0.00
       Soil Disposal Subtitle D                                                         $196,948.74
Removal & Replacement - Harper & Bon Brae                                             $11,794,164.11                  A-4G
       Drain Removal/Replacement/Abandonment - Harper & Bon Brae                       $2,412,092.06
       Roadwork/Excavation/Backfill                                                    $2,556,144.81
       Soil Disposal TSCA/RCRA: Subtitle C                                             $6,825,927.24
       Soil Disposal Subtitle D                                                            $0.00
Cleaning/Power Washing - East end of Bon Brae and Jefferson                             $248,097.69                   A-4H
       Cleaning/Power Washing - East end of Bon Brae and Jefferson                      $248,097.69
Long Term Monitoring (30 years at PW value)                                           $3,021,500.00
       Long Term Monitoring & 5 Year Reviews                                           $3,021,500.00                   A-4I
TOTALS                                                                                $25,259,781.95
                                                                 -30 percent          $17,681,847.37
                                                                 +50 percent          $37,889,672.93



                                                                                                                                        Page 1 of 11
TABLE A-4B. GENERAL CONDITIONS COST DETAIL - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
ALTERNATIVES 5

    ITEM No.       PAY ITEM DESCRIPTION            LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION              QUANTITY   UNIT    UNIT PRICE     CONTRACTOR COST   CONTRACTOR FEE       CONTRACTOR PM/OH              TOTAL                   BASIS
                     Pre-Remediation
        1            Activities/General         Pre-Design Sampling/Testing              1        LS     $72,000.00        $60,000.00        $9,000.00              $3,000.00              $72,000.00
                         Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Engineer's Estimate; assumes
                                                      Land/Drain Survey                 18       DAY      $2,500.00        $45,000.00        $6,750.00              $2,250.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                          3 days survey per event/vault


EVENTS (BASED ON                                                                                                                                                                                          Engineer's Estimate; assume 1
                             6                          Utility Location                 6       DAY      $2,500.00        $15,000.00        $2,250.00               $750.00
   NO. VAULTS)                                                                                                                                                                                             day survey per event/vault




                                                                                                                                                                DIRECT COST TOTAL          $72,000.00
                                                                                                                                                                  MOB/DEMOBE               $2,880.00                  4%
                                                                                                                                                                  CONTINGENCY              $21,600.00                 30%
                                                                                                                                                                  CM/OVERSIGHT             $4,320.00                  6%
                                                                                                                                                           PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND        $1,080.00                  2%
                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGEMENT           $3,600.00                  5%
                                                                                                                                                           PRE-DESIGN SAMPLING/TESTING:
                                                                                                                                                                                          $105,480.00
                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL

                     Pre-Remediation
        2            Activities/General              General Conditions                  1        LS    $1,077,426.00     $897,855.00       $134,678.25             $44,892.75            $1,077,426.00
                         Conditions
                                                Trailer/Sanitry Facilities Rental       10       MO       $1,535.50        $15,355.00        $2,303.25               $767.75                                Means 01.52.13.20.0550

 DURATION (MO)              10                              Utilities                   10       MO       $1,000.00        $10,000.00        $1,500.00               $500.00                                   Engineer's Estimate

                                                        Miscellaneous                   10       MO       $1,000.00        $10,000.00        $1,500.00               $500.00                                   Engineer's Estimate
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Engineer's Estimate; informed
                                              Traffic Controls/Temporary Roads          10       MO      $35,000.00        $350,000.00      $52,500.00              $17,500.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      by IRM
                                                         Site Security                  10       MO      $12,000.00        $120,000.00      $18,000.00              $6,000.00                                  Engineer's Estimate
                                                         Dust Control                   10       MO      $12,000.00        $120,000.00      $18,000.00              $6,000.00                                  Engineer's Estimate
                                                        Air Monitoring                  10       MO       $1,500.00         $15,000.00       $2,250.00               $750.00                                   Engineer's Estimate
                                                       Noise Monitoring                 10       MO       $1,500.00         $15,000.00       $2,250.00               $750.00                                   Engineer's Estimate
                                                      Temporary Fencing                2,000     LF         $15.00          $30,000.00       $4,500.00              $1,500.00                                  Engineer's Estimate
                                                 Temporary Utility Relocation           10       MO      $15,000.00        $150,000.00      $22,500.00              $7,500.00                                  Engineer's Estimate
                                                 Erosion & Sediment Controls            10       MO       $3,000.00         $30,000.00       $4,500.00              $1,500.00                                  Engineer's Estimate
                                                    Submittal Preparation               10       MO       $2,500.00         $25,000.00       $3,750.00              $1,250.00                                  Engineer's Estimate
                                                TemporaryStorage/Decon Area             10       MO        $750.00           $7,500.00       $1,125.00               $375.00                                   Engineer's Estimate

                                                                                                                                                                DIRECT COST TOTAL         $1,077,426.00
                                                                                                                                                                  MOB/DEMOBE               $43,097.04                 4%
                                                                                                                                                                  CONTINGENCY              $323,227.80                30%
                                                                                                                                                                  CM/OVERSIGHT             $64,645.56                 6%
                                                                                                                                                           PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND       $16,161.39                  2%
                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT MANAGEMENT           $53,871.30                  5%
                                                                                                                                                            GENERAL CONDITIONS: TOTAL     $1,614,057.89

        3                    0                  Stormwater By-Pass Pumping               1        LS    $2,700,000.00     $2,250,000.00     $337,500.00            $112,500.00            $2,700,000.00

                                                                                                                                                                                                          Engineer's Estimate, informed
                                          By-Pass Pumping Allowance - routing water                                                                                                                         by the daily/monthly costs
 DURATION (MO)              10                                                          10       MO     $225,000.00       $2,250,000.00     $337,500.00            $112,500.00
                                             around work area; no treatment used                                                                                                                            incurred for by-pass water
                                                                                                                                                                                                           management during the IRM



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 2 of 11
TABLE A-4B. GENERAL CONDITIONS COST DETAIL - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
ALTERNATIVES 5

    ITEM No.      PAY ITEM DESCRIPTION             LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION            QUANTITY   UNIT    UNIT PRICE     CONTRACTOR COST   CONTRACTOR FEE        CONTRACTOR PM/OH              TOTAL                   BASIS




                                                                                                                                                               DIRECT COST TOTAL         $2,700,000.00
                                                                                                                                                                 MOB/DEMOBE               $108,000.00                4%
                                                                                                                                                                 CONTINGENCY              $810,000.00               30%
                                                                                                                                                                 CM/OVERSIGHT             $162,000.00               6%
                                                                                                                                                         PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND        $40,500.00                 2%
                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT MANAGEMENT          $135,000.00                 5%
                                                                                                                                                         STORMWATER BY-PASS PUMPING:
                                                                                                                                                                                         $3,955,500.00
                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL

                    Pre-Remediation
        4           Activities/General     Contact Water Treatment and Monitoring      1        LS    $1,845,600.00     $1,538,000.00     $230,700.00              $76,900.00            $1,845,600.00
                        Conditions
                                           Drain and Excavation Dewatering /Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate based on
                                           transport Allowance and monthly Water      10       MO     $100,000.00       $1,000,000.00     $150,000.00              $50,000.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                              IRM Incurred costs
                                                  Treatment System Rental
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate based on
                                               Carbon Change Out/Replacement          10        EA     $10,500.00        $105,000.00      $15,750.00                $5,250.00                            IRM Incurred costs; assume 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            changeout per month

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate based on
 DURATION (MO)             10                          Carbon Disposal                10        EA     $42,000.00        $420,000.00      $63,000.00               $21,000.00                            IRM Incurred costs; assume 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            changeout per month
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate. Assume
                                                                                                                                                                                                          daily (working-day) samples
                                                  Effluent sampling - analysis        200       EA       $65.00          $13,000.00        $1,950.00                $650.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                         for PCBs only will be needed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  based on IRM
                                                   Effluent sampling - labor          100      HR        $80.68           $8,068.41        $1,210.26                $403.42                                assumes 0.5 hr per sample


                                                                                                                                                               DIRECT COST TOTAL         $1,845,600.00
                                                                                                                                                                 MOB/DEMOBE                $73,824.00                4%
                                                                                                                                                                 CONTINGENCY              $553,680.00               30%
                                                                                                                                                                 CM/OVERSIGHT             $110,736.00                6%
                                                                                                                                                         PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND        $27,684.00                 2%
                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT MANAGEMENT           $92,280.00                 5%
                                                                                                                                                         CONTACT WATER TREATMENT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                         $2,703,804.00
                                                                                                                                                              MONITORING: TOTAL


                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL: ALTERNATIVES 2,3,4,5   $8,378,841.89


MONTHLY COSTS
GENERAL CONDITIONS UNIT COST                             $161,405.79
STORMWATER BYPASS UNIT COSTS                             $395,550.00
CONTACT WATER PUMPING AND
                                                         $270,380.40
TREATMENT UNIT COST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Page 3 of 11
TABLE A-4C: INSTITUTIONAL CONTOLS AND PERMITTING COST DETAIL - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
ALTERNATIVE 5

 ITEM     PAY ITEM                                                                                  CONTRACTOR CONTRACTOR
                                    LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION              QUANTITY UNIT   UNIT PRICE                               CONTRACTOR PM/OH           TOTAL             BASIS
  No.    DESCRIPTION                                                                                   COST        FEE

          Institutional
  1                                    Deed Restrictions                   1     LS    $20,400.00    $17,000.00   $2,550.00           $850.00            $20,400.00
            Controls
                                           Engineer I                     10    DAY    $1,200.00     $12,000.00   $1,800.00           $600.00                          Engineer's Estimate
                                           Engineer II                    5     DAY    $1,000.00      $5,000.00    $750.00            $250.00                          Engineer's Estimate

                                                                                                                                 DIRECT COST TOTAL       $20,400.00
                                                                                                                                    CONTINGENCY          $6,120.00            30%
                                                                                                                                   CM/OVERSIGHT          $1,224.00            6%
                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGEMENT        $1,020.00            5%
                                                                                                                              DEED RESTRICTIONS: TOTAL   $28,764.00

          Institutional
  2                              Permits or Permit Equivalences            1     LS    $63,600.00    $53,000.00   $7,950.00          $2,650.00           $63,600.00
            Controls
                                        Project Manager                   15    DAY     $1,200.00    $18,000.00   $2,700.00           $900.00                          Engineer's Estimate
                                        Project Engineer                  10    DAY     $1,000.00    $10,000.00   $1,500.00           $500.00                          Engineer's Estimate
                                            Permits                       1      LS    $25,000.00    $25,000.00   $3,750.00          $1,250.00                         Engineer's Estimate

                                                                                                                                 DIRECT COST TOTAL       $63,600.00
                                                                                                                                    CONTINGENCY          $19,080.00           30%
                                                                                                                                   CM/OVERSIGHT          $3,816.00            6%
                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGEMENT        $3,180.00            5%
                                                                                                                                 PERMITS OR PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                         $89,676.00
                                                                                                                                EQUIVALENCES: TOTAL

                                                                                                                                TOTAL: ALTERNATIVE 5     $118,440.00




                                                                                                                                                                             Page 4 of 11
TABLE A-4F. REPLACEMENT/REPAIR OF LAKELAND STREET DRAIN COST DETAIL - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
ALTERNATIVE 5 LAKELAND REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT

        ITEM No.         PAY ITEM DESCRIPTION             LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION          QUANTITY     UNIT      UNIT PRICE   CONTRACTOR COST   CONTRACTOR FEE       CONTRACTOR PM/OH          TOTAL                 BASIS

                            Replacement of
           1                                                    IDW Survey                  1          LS       $16,320.00      $13,600.00        $2,040.00               $680.00           $16,320.00
                           Lakeland St Drain
                                                             Project Engineer               4         DAY       $1,000.00       $4,000.00         $600.00                 $200.00
                                                          GeoProbe and Operator             2         DAY       $1,800.00       $3,600.00         $540.00                 $180.00                           Engineer's Estimate
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate for full
                                                         Characterization Sampling          4          EA       $1,500.00       $6,000.00         $900.00                 $300.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TCLP + totals and PCBs




                                                                                                                                                                     DIRECT COST TOTAL      $16,320.00
                                                                                                                                                                       MOB/DEMOBE            $652.80                4%
                                                                                                                                                                        CONTINGENCY         $4,896.00               30%
                                                                                                                                                                       CM/OVERSIGHT          $979.20                6%
                                                                                                                                                                PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND    $244.80                 2%
                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT MANAGEMENT        $816.00                 5%
                                                                                                                                                                     IDW SURVEY: TOTAL      $23,908.80

                            Replacement of
           2                                           Drain/Catch Basin Replacement       370         LF        $145.93        $44,995.56        $6,749.33              $2,249.78          $53,994.68
                           Lakeland St Drain
                                                        Existing Drain Pipe Removal        370         LF        $12.54          $4,639.80         $695.97                $231.99                         Means 02.41.13.38.0500
  DRAIN REPLACEMENT              370                         RCP 24" Drain Pipe            370         LF        $46.44         $17,182.80        $2,577.42               $859.14                         Means 33.41.13.60.1080
     CATCH BASINS                 1                    Drain Pipe Fittings/Connections     19          EA        $500.00         $9,250.00        $1,387.50               $462.50                          Engineer's Estimate
  MANHOLES/VAULTS                 0                         Catch Basin Removal             1          EA       $1,480.00        $1,480.00         $222.00                $74.00                          Means 02.41.13.34.0200
                                                          Catch Basin Replacement           1          EA       $1,480.00        $1,480.00         $222.00                 $74.00                         Means 33.49.13.10.0100
                                                             Pipeline Earthwork            219         CY         $50.00        $10,962.96        $1,644.44               $548.15                          Engineer's Estimate




                                                                                                                                                                     DIRECT COST TOTAL      $53,994.68
                                                                                                                                                                       MOB/DEMOBE           $2,159.79               4%
                                                                                                                                                                        CONTINGENCY         $16,198.40              30%
                                                                                                                                                                       CM/OVERSIGHT         $3,239.68               6%
                                                                                                                                                                PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND    $809.92                 2%
                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT MANAGEMENT       $2,699.73                5%
                                                                                                                                                                     DRAIN/CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                            $79,102.20
                                                                                                                                                                    REPLACEMENT: TOTAL


                            Replacement of
           3                                           Roadwork/Excavation/Backfill        601         CY        $159.07        $79,640.41       $11,946.06              $3,982.02          $95,568.49
                           Lakeland St Drain
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate - 100 CY
                                                                                                                                                                                                           per day production rate
                                                              Excavation Crew               6       Crew Days   $2,019.83       $12,134.91        $1,820.24               $606.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                         assumed based on prior site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 experience.
    EXCAVATION (CY)              601                             Excavator                  6          DAY       $680.00        $4,085.36          $612.80                $204.27                         Means 01.54.33.20.0140
    ROAD DEMO (SF)               2960                          Dump Truck                   6          DAY       $225.00        $1,351.77          $202.77                $67.59                          Means 01.54.33.20.5250
       DRAIN (LF)                370                         Soil Storage Area             46           CY       $40.78         $1,887.96          $283.19                $94.40                            Means 31.23.23.1300
                                                               Backfill Crew                6       Crew Days   $1,566.61        $9,412.02        $1,411.80               $470.60                            Engineer's Estimate
                                                                   Loader                   6       Crew Days    $460.00         $2,763.62         $414.54                $138.18                         Means 01.54.33.20.4400
                                                                Compactor                   6       Crew Days    $197.00         $1,183.55         $177.53                 $59.18                         Means 01.54.33.20.1200
                                                              Stone Bedding                150          CY        $39.88         $5,989.85         $898.48                $299.49                         Means 31.23.23.16.0100
                                                                   Backfill                601          CY        $25.38        $15,247.99        $2,287.20               $762.40                         Means 31.23.23.16.0200
                                                         Road/Asphalt Demolition           329          SY        $6.60         $2,171.40          $325.71                $108.57                         Means 02.41.13.17.5050
                                                         Road Repair/Replacement           329          SY        $14.93         $4,911.97         $736.80                $245.60                         Means 32.12.16.13.0200



                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page 5 of 11
TABLE A-4F. REPLACEMENT/REPAIR OF LAKELAND STREET DRAIN COST DETAIL - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
                           O              C                  Road re-striping              370      LF    $50.00    $18,500.00    $2,775.00               $925.00                                unit cost based on IRM

                                                                                                                                                     DIRECT COST TOTAL           $95,568.49
                                                                                                                                                       MOB/DEMOBE                $3,822.74                4%
                                                                                                                                                        CONTINGENCY              $28,670.55               30%
                                                                                                                                                       CM/OVERSIGHT              $5,734.11                6%
                                                                                                                                               PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND          $1,433.53                2%
                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT MANAGEMENT             $4,778.42                5%
                                                                                                                                               ROADWORK/EXCAVATION/BACKFIL
                                                                                                                                                                                 $140,007.84
                                                                                                                                                         L: TOTAL

                            Replacement of
           4                                         Soil Disposal TSCA/RCRA: Subtitle C     0     TONS    $0.00       $0.00        $0.00                  $0.00                    $0.00
                           Lakeland St Drain
                                                                                                                                                                                               Engineer's Estimate based on
                                                     Soil Disposal TSCA/RCRA: Subtitle C    0      TON    $185.00      $0.00        $0.00                   $0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                            IRM
 DISPOSAL TOTAL (TONS)           1318
      DISPOSAL%                   0%
      SUBTITAL C                 0.00

                                                                                                                                                     DIRECT COST TOTAL              $0.00
                                                                                                                                                       MOB/DEMOBE                   $0.00                  4%
                                                                                                                                                        CONTINGENCY                 $0.00                 30%
                                                                                                                                                       CM/OVERSIGHT                 $0.00                  6%
                                                                                                                                               PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND            $0.00                  2%
                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT MANAGEMENT               $0.00                  5%
                                                                                                                                                  SOIL DISPOSAL TSCA/RCRA:
                                                                                                                                                                                    $0.00
                                                                                                                                                      SUBTITLE C: TOTAL

                            Replacement of
           5                                               Soil Disposal Subtitle D        1,318   TONS   $102.00   $112,030.00   $16,804.50              $5,601.50              $134,436.00
                           Lakeland St Drain
                                                           Soil Disposal Subtitle D        1,318   TON    $85.00    $112,030.00   $16,804.50              $5,601.50                                Engineer's Estimate
      SUBTITAL D                 1318




                                                                                                                                                     DIRECT COST TOTAL           $134,436.00
                                                                                                                                                       MOB/DEMOBE                 $5,377.44               4%
                                                                                                                                                        CONTINGENCY              $40,330.80               30%
                                                                                                                                                       CM/OVERSIGHT               $8,066.16               6%
                                                                                                                                               PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND          $2,016.54                2%
                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT MANAGEMENT            $6,721.80                5%
                                                                                                                                               SOIL DISPOSAL SUBTITLE D: TOTAL   $196,948.74
                                                                                                                                               TOTAL: ALTERNATIVE 5 LAKELAND
                                                                                                                                                                                 $439,967.58
                                                                                                                                                REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Page 6 of 11
TABLE A-4G: REMOVAL/REPLACEMENT OR RELOCATION OF HARPER AND BON BRAE DRAINS COST DETAIL - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN

ALTERNATIVE 5 HARPER BON BRAE
       ITEM No.            PAY ITEM DESCRIPTION                LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION                QUANTITY     UNIT      UNIT PRICE   CONTRACTOR COST   CONTRACTOR FEE        CONTRACTOR PM/OH            TOTAL                   BASIS
                          Removal & Replacement -
           1                                        Drain Removal/Replacement - Harper & Bon Brae    2,110        LF        $780.32       $1,372,066.02     $205,809.90             $68,603.30           $1,646,479.22
                             Harper & Bon Brae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate/Means
                                                              Existing Drain Pipe Removal            2,110        LF        $125.40       $264,594.00       $39,689.10              $13,229.70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             02.41.13.38.0500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate/Means
  DRAIN REPLACEMENT                2110                    RCP Drain Pipe (48" and greater)          2,110        LF        $464.40       $979,884.00       $146,982.60             $48,994.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             33.41.13.60.1080
     CATCH BASINS                    0                      Drain Pipe Fittings/Connections           106         EA        $500.00        $52,750.00        $7,912.50               $2,637.50                              Engineer's Estimate
   MANHOLES/VAULTS                   6                           Catch Basin Removal                   0          EA       $1,480.00         $0.00             $0.00                   $0.00                              Means 02.41.13.34.0200
                                                               Catch Basin Replacement                 0          EA       $1,480.00         $0.00             $0.00                   $0.00                              Means 33.49.13.10.0100
                                                                    Manhole (New)                      6          EA       $2,053.25       $12,319.50        $1,847.93                $615.98                             Means 33.49.13.10.0900
                                                                  Pipeline Earthwork                 1,250        CY        $50.00         $62,518.52        $9,377.78               $3,125.93                              Engineer's Estimate




                                                                                                                                                                                 DIRECT COST TOTAL       $1,646,479.22
                                                                                                                                                                                   MOB/DEMOBE             $65,859.17                 4%
                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTINGENCY           $493,943.77                30%
                                                                                                                                                                                   CM/OVERSIGHT           $98,788.75                 6%
                                                                                                                                                                           PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND      $24,697.19                 2%
                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGEMENT         $82,323.96                 5%
                                                                                                                                                                                ALTERNATIVE 5 TOTAL      $2,412,092.06

                          Removal & Replacement -
           2                                                Roadwork/Excavation/Backfill             10,508       CY        $166.05       $1,454,007.29     $218,101.09             $72,700.36           $1,744,808.75
                             Harper & Bon Brae
                                                                   Excavation Crew                    105      Crew Days   $2,019.83      $212,234.52       $31,835.18              $10,611.73                                Engineer's Estimate
    EXCAVATION (CY)               10508                                Excavator                      105         DAY       $680.00        $71,451.18       $10,717.68               $3,572.56                             Means 01.54.33.20.0140
    ROAD DEMO (SF)                24435                              Dump Truck                       105         DAY       $225.00       $23,641.93        $3,546.29               $1,182.10                              Means 01.54.33.20.5250
                                                                   Soil Storage Area                   46          CY       $40.78         $1,887.96         $283.19                  $94.40                                Means 31.23.23.1300
                                                                     Backfill Crew                    105      Crew Days   $1,566.61      $164,612.26       $24,691.84               $8,230.61                                Engineer's Estimate
                                                                         Loader                       105      Crew Days    $460.00       $48,334.62        $7,250.19               $2,416.73                              Means 01.54.33.20.4400
                                                                      Compactor                       105      Crew Days    $197.00       $20,699.83        $3,104.97               $1,034.99                              Means 01.54.33.20.1200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           unit cost based on costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             incurred during IRM;
                                                                  Excavation bracing                   6          EA       $60,000.00     $360,000.00       $54,000.00              $18,000.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         assumes bracing left in place
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               after installation
                                                                   Stone Bedding                     2,627        CY         $39.88       $104,760.03       $15,714.00              $5,238.00                              Means 31.23.23.16.0100
                                                                      Backfill                       10,508       CY         $25.38       $266,681.00       $40,002.15              $13,334.05                             Means 31.23.23.16.0200
                                                              Road/Asphalt Demolition                2,715        SY          $6.60        $17,919.00        $2,687.85                $895.95                              Means 02.41.13.17.5050
                                                              Road Repair/Replacement                2,715        SY         $14.93        $40,534.95        $6,080.24               $2,026.75                             Means 32.12.16.13.0200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           unit cost based on IRM;
                                                                   Road re-striping                  2,110        LF         $50.00       $105,500.00       $15,825.00               $5,275.00                             assumes about 50 LF per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             vault to be restriped
                                                              Characterization Sampling               21          EA        $750.00        $15,750.00        $2,362.50                $787.50                                 Engineer's Estimate

                                                                                                                                                                                 DIRECT COST TOTAL       $1,744,808.75
                                                                                                                                                                                   MOB/DEMOBE             $69,792.35                 4%
                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTINGENCY           $523,442.62                30%
                                                                                                                                                                                   CM/OVERSIGHT           $104,688.52                 6%
                                                                                                                                                                           PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND      $26,172.13                 2%
                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGEMENT         $87,240.44                 5%
                                                                                                                                                                           ROADWORK/EXCAVATION/BACKFIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                         $2,556,144.81
                                                                                                                                                                                     L: TOTAL

                          Removal & Replacement -
           3                                              Soil Disposal TSCA/RCRA: Subtitle C        20,988     TONS        $222.00       $3,882,780.00     $582,417.00             $194,139.00          $4,659,336.00
                             Harper & Bon Brae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineer's Estimate based on
                                                          Soil Disposal TSCA/RCRA: Subtitle C        20,988      TON        $185.00       $3,882,780.00     $582,417.00             $194,139.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IRM

 DISPOSAL TOTAL (TONS)            20988

       DISPOSAL%                   100%
       SUBTITAL C                20988.00

                                                                                                                                                                                 DIRECT COST TOTAL       $4,659,336.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page 7 of 11
TABLE A-4G: REMOVAL/REPLACEMENT OR RELOCATION OF HARPER AND BON BRAE DRAINS COST DETAIL - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
                                                                                                                                                   MOB/DEMOBE                 $186,373.44            4%
                                                                                                                                                    CONTINGENCY              $1,397,800.80          30%
                                                                                                                                                   CM/OVERSIGHT               $279,560.16            6%
                                                                                                                                           PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND          $69,890.04            2%
                                                                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGEMENT            $232,966.80            5%
                                                                                                                                              SOIL DISPOSAL TSCA/RCRA:
                                                                                                                                                                             $6,825,927.24
                                                                                                                                                  SUBTITLE C: TOTAL


                         Removal & Replacement -
           4                                                 Soil Disposal Subtitle D                0     TONS   $0.00    $0.00   $0.00                $0.00                   $0.00
                            Harper & Bon Brae
                                                              Soil Disposal Subtitle D               0     TON    $85.00   $0.00   $0.00                $0.00                                Engineer's Estimate
      SUBTITAL D                   0




                                                                                                                                                 DIRECT COST TOTAL              $0.00
                                                                                                                                                   MOB/DEMOBE                   $0.00                4%
                                                                                                                                                    CONTINGENCY                 $0.00               30%
                                                                                                                                                   CM/OVERSIGHT                 $0.00                6%
                                                                                                                                           PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND            $0.00               2%
                                                                                                                                                PROJECT MANAGEMENT              $0.00               5%
                                                                                                                                           SOIL DISPOSAL SUBTITLE D: TOTAL      $0.00




                                                                                                                                                                                             Page 8 of 11
TABLE A-4H: CLEANING AND POWER WASHING EAST BON BRAE, JEFFERSON, AND OTHER DRAIN SEGMENTS
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
ALTERNATIVE 5 - CLEANING AND POWER WASHING EAST END OF BON BRAE AND JEFFERSON

       ITEM No.          PAY ITEM DESCRIPTION                  LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION                QUANTITY     UNIT      UNIT PRICE    CONTRACTOR COST CONTRACTOR FEE       CONTRACTOR PM/OH           TOTAL                BASIS
                        Cleaning/Power Washing -
                                                    Cleaning/Power Washing - East end of Bon Brae
          1              East end of Bon Brae and                                                      1          LS       $169,349.96     $141,124.97      $21,168.75             $7,056.25           $169,349.96
                                                                   and Jefferson
                                 Jefferson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Engineer's Estimate -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      assume 150 ft pipe and 1
                                                             Power Wash Vaults and Pipe               39       Crew Days     $921.14        $35,648.12      $5,347.22              $1,782.41                           vault cleaned per day;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     informed by IRM incurred
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                costs
      VAULTS (EA)                  40                           Power Washer Rental                   39         DAY         $48.50         $1,876.95        $281.54                $93.85                              Means 01.54.33.5450
      PIPING (LF)                5,805                              Clean Pipe                       5,805        LF         $17.50        $101,587.50      $15,238.13             $5,079.38                          Means 33.01.30.16.0160


 WATER DISPOSAL (GAL)            9,504                           Pump/Hose Rental                     1.76       MO          $660.00        $1,161.00        $174.15                $58.05                             Means 01.54.33.5600


                                                                 Storage Tank Rental                  1.76       MO          $484.00         $851.40         $127.71                $42.57                             Means 01.54.33.7660




                                                                                                                                                                               DIRECT COST TOTAL       $169,349.96
                                                                                                                                                                                 MOB/DEMOBE             $6,774.00               4%
                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTINGENCY          $50,804.99              30%
                                                                                                                                                                                 CM/OVERSIGHT          $10,161.00               6%
                                                                                                                                                                          PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND     $2,540.25               2%
                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT MANAGEMENT        $8,467.50               5%
                                                                                                                                                                           CLEANING/POWER WASHING -
                                                                                                                                                                            EAST END OF BON BRAE AND   $248,097.69
                                                                                                                                                                                JEFFERSON: TOTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page 9 of 11
TABLE A-4I. LONG-TERM MONITORING COST DETAIL (PRESENT WORTH) - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN
ALTERNATIVE 5
                            PAY ITEM
         ITEM No.                                    LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION                   QUANTITY   UNIT   UNIT PRICE    CONTRACTOR COST   CONTRACTOR FEE       CONTRACTOR PM/OH            TOTAL              BASIS
                           DESCRIPTION

                           Long Term
          1              Monitoring (30        Annual Monitoring - Years 1 through 5            1        LS    $187,200.00     $156,000.00       $23,400.00              $7,800.00            $187,200.00
                       years at PW value)

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Current weir sampling
                                            Monthly weir and snare sampling of 20 vaults       12       MO     $13,000.00      $156,000.00       $23,400.00              $7,800.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    costs




                                                                                                                                                                     DIRECT COST TOTAL        $187,200.00
                                                                                                                                                                       MOB/DEMOBE               $7,488.00            4%
                                                                                                                                                                        CONTINGENCY            $56,160.00           30%
                                                                                                                                                                       CM/OVERSIGHT            $11,232.00            6%
                                                                                                                                                                PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND      $2,808.00             2%
                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT MANAGEMENT          $9,360.00             5%
                                                                                                                                                                ANNUAL MONITORING - YEARS 1
                                                                                                                                                                                              $274,248.00
                                                                                                                                                                     THROUGH 5: TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL: ALTERNATIVE 5      $274,248.00

ALTERNATIVE 5
                           PAY ITEM
       ITEM No.                                       LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION                  QUANTITY   UNIT   UNIT PRICE    CONTRACTOR COST   CONTRACTOR FEE       CONTRACTOR PM/OH            TOTAL              BASIS
                          DESCRIPTION

                           Long Term
          1              Monitoring (30       Annual Monitoring - Years 5 through 30            1        LS    $62,400.00       $52,000.00        $7,800.00              $2,600.00            $62,400.00
                       years at PW value)

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Current weir sampling
                                            Quarterly weir and snare sampling of 20 vaults      4       MO     $13,000.00       $52,000.00        $7,800.00              $2,600.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    costs




                                                                                                                                                                     DIRECT COST TOTAL        $62,400.00
                                                                                                                                                                       MOB/DEMOBE              $2,496.00             4%
                                                                                                                                                                        CONTINGENCY           $18,720.00            30%
                                                                                                                                                                       CM/OVERSIGHT            $3,744.00             6%
                                                                                                                                                                PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND       $936.00              2%
                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT MANAGEMENT          $3,120.00             5%
                                                                                                                                                                ANNUAL MONITORING - YEARS 5
                                                                                                                                                                                              $91,416.00
                                                                                                                                                                     THROUGH 30: TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL: ALTERNATIVE 5      $91,416.00

          2              5 Year Review                      5 Year Review                       1        LS    $49,200.00       $41,000.00        $6,150.00              $2,050.00            $49,200.00
                                                           Project Manager                      5       DAY     $1,200.00        $6,000.00         $900.00                $300.00                            Engineer's Estimate
                                                           Project Engineer                    20       DAY     $1,000.00       $20,000.00        $3,000.00              $1,000.00                           Engineer's Estimate
                                                        5 Year Review Report                    1        EA    $15,000.00       $15,000.00        $2,250.00               $750.00                            Engineer's Estimate

                                                                                                                                                                     DIRECT COST TOTAL        $49,200.00
                                                                                                                                                                        CONTINGENCY           $14,760.00            30%
                                                                                                                                                                       CM/OVERSIGHT            $2,952.00             6%



                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 10 of 11
TABLE A-4I. LONG-TERM MONITORING COST DETAIL (PRESENT WORTH) - TEN-MILE DRAIN
TEN-MILE DRAIN SUPERFUND SITE
ST. CLAIR SHORES, MICHIGAN

                                                                                                                       PERFORMANCE/PAYEMENT BOND         $738.00            2%
                                                                                                                          PROJECT MANAGEMENT             $2,460.00          5%
                                                                                                                          5 YEAR REVIEW : TOTAL         $70,110.00
                                                                                                                                  TOTAL:                $70,110.00


TMD - LTM PRESENT VALUE ANALYSIS (30-year)
PRESENT VALUE ANALYSIS (30-year)                                                Discount Rate =   3.5%
        End Year            COST TYPE                                                                TOTAL COST/YEAR        DISCOUNT FACTOR         PRESENT VALUE
            0          CAPITAL COST                                                                     $274,248                 1.000             $       274,248
            1          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                              $274,248                 0.966             $       264,974
            2          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                              $274,248                 0.934             $       256,013
            3          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                              $274,248                 0.902             $       247,356
            4          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                              $274,248                 0.871             $       238,991
            5          PERIODIC COST - O&M, 5 Year Review                                               $344,358                 0.842             $       289,940
            6          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.814             $         74,367
            7          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.786             $         71,852
            8          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.759             $         69,422
            9          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.734             $         67,075
           10          PERIODIC COST - O&M, 5 Year Review                                               $161,526                 0.709             $       114,509
           11          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.685             $         62,615
           12          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.662             $         60,498
           13          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.639             $         58,452
           14          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.618             $         56,475
           15          PERIODIC COST - O&M, 5 Year Review                                               $161,526                 0.597             $         96,413
           16          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.577             $         52,720
           17          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.557             $         50,937
           18          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.538             $         49,215
           19          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.520             $         47,551
           20          PERIODIC COST - O&M, 5 Year Review                                               $161,526                 0.503             $         81,177
           21          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.486             $         44,389
           22          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.469             $         42,888
           23          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.453             $         41,438
           24          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.438             $         40,036
           25          PERIODIC COST - O&M, 5 Year Review                                               $161,526                 0.423             $         68,349
           26          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.409             $         37,374
           27          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.395             $         36,110
           28          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.382             $         34,889
           29          PERIODIC COST - O&M                                                               $91,416                 0.369             $         33,709
           30          PERIODIC COST - O&M, 5 Year Review                                               $161,526                 0.356             $         57,548

                                                                                                                         TOTAL PRESENT VALUE OF TMD $       3,021,500
                                                                                                                                                LTM




                                                                                                                                                                        Page 11 of 11
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A
                      U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
                                  REMEDIAL ACTION

                                ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD
                                       FOR THE
                            TEN-MILE DRAIN SITE
                ST CLAIR SHORES, MACOMB COUNTY, MICHIGAN

                                         SUPPLEMENT 10
                                          JUNE 11, 2018
                                         SEMS ID: 939101

NO.   SEMS ID    DATE      AUTHOR               RECIPIENT           TITLE/DESCRIPTION                   PAGES

1     939082     8/9/04    Augustyn, J., U.S. File                  Federal on Scene Coordinator's         46
                           EPA                                      (OSC) Report (Redacted)

2     939083     7/9/04    Kimble, J., U.S.     Mankowski, M.,      Memo re: Completion of PCB             86
                           EPA                  U.S. EPA            Removal Activities by SFD,
                                                                    ERB1, RS1 (Redacted)

3     922686     10/1/17   Weston Solutions     MI Dept. of         April-May 2005 Site Investigation     189
                           of Michigan Inc.     Environmental       Report & Focused Feasibility
                                                Quality             Study - Vol. 1-2 (Reference #8)
                                                                    (Redacted Version)

4     922687     6/8/10    Kozel, L., Weston Kimblel, J., U.S.      Letter re: Bon Brae/Harper Site       288
                           Inc.              EPA                    Removal Action W/ Attachments
                                                                    (Redacted Version)

5     939080     8/8/14    Kozel, L., Tetra     Lippert, J., U.S.   (Redacted) Removal Letter              23
                           Tech, Inc.           EPA                 Report for St Clair Shores PCB
                                                                    Drain Removal #2 (Redacted)

6     939079     2/1/16    CH2M Hill, Inc.      U.S. EPA            Human Health Risk Assessment          426
                                                                    (Redacted)

7     939089     2/1/16    CH2M Hill, Inc.      U.S. EPA            Final Screening-Level Ecological       61
                                                                    Risk Assessment (Redacted)

8     932384     9/1/16    CH2M Hill, Inc.      File                Final Remedial Investigation          1562
                                                                    Report (Redacted Version)

9     932458     2/16/17   Fusinski, K., U.S.   Moynihan, C., U.S. Memo re: Technical Review of            2
                           EPA                  EPA                PCB Cleanup Level in Residential
                                                                   Yards & Parkways

10    935045     7/11/17   CH2M Hill, Inc.      U.S. EPA            Technical Memo re: Preliminary         4
                                                                    Remediation Goal for PCBs in
                                                                    Utility Corridor Soil
11   939077   8/1/17    CH2M Hill, Inc.     U.S. EPA           Final Feasibility Study (Revision   62
                                                               1)

12   939078   1/29/18   Flaga, C., MDEQ     Ferris, J., MDEQ   Memo re: Review of Utility          2
                                                               Preliminary Remediation Goal for
                                                               PCBs in Utility Corridor Soil at
                                                               Ten Mile Drain

13   940536   4/1/18    U.S. EPA            Public             Proposes PCB Cleanup Plan for       8
                                                               Contaminated Soil - Fact Sheet

14   940537   4/1/18    U.S. EPA            Public             Proposed Plan - Near Surface        38
                                                               Soils

15   941021   5/8/18    Nichols, D.,        Leon, H., U.S.     Letter Re: Ten Mile Drain           2
                        Triangle            EPA                Superfund Site Comments - St.
                        Development                            Clair Shores, Michigan
                        Services (Shores)
                        LLC

16   941016   5/10/18   Lexitas             File               Report of Proceeding - EPA          4
                                                               Proposes Cleanup Plan - Public
                                                               Meeting

17   941017   5/10/18   Lexitas             File               Report of Proceeding - EPA          8
                                                               Proposes Cleanup Plan - Public
                                                               Meeting

18   941018   5/10/18   U.S. EPA            Residents          Public Comments on Proposed         1
                                                               Cleanup Plan for Investigation
                                                               Areas 1 and 2 of the Ten-Mile
                                                               Drain Site

19   941427   5/10/18   U.S. EPA            Residents          Public Comments on Proposed         2
                                                               Cleanup Plan for Investigation
                                                               Areas 1 and 2 of the Ten-Mile
                                                               Drain Site

20   941019   5/24/18   Leon, H., U.S.      Residents          Email Re: 10 Mile Drain Site -      1
                        EPA                                    Saint Clair Shores, MI

21   941020   5/24/18   Leon, H., U.S.      Residents          Email Re: Ten-Mile Drain - Saint    2
                        EPA                                    Clair Shores - Michigan
                      U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
                                  REMEDIAL ACTION

                                ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD
                                       FOR THE
                            TEN-MILE DRAIN SITE
                ST CLAIR SHORES, MACOMB COUNTY, MICHIGAN

                                          UPDATE 4
                                         MAY 30, 2023
                                        SEMS ID: 980467

NO.   SEMS ID    DATE      AUTHOR             RECIPIENT   TITLE/DESCRIPTION                    PAGES

1     423797     1/1/12    CH2M Hill          U.S. EPA    Report - 2011 Source Area              401
                                                          Investigation

2     906808     1/21/13   Environmental      U.S. EPA    Report - Quarterly Inspection and      113
                           Quality                        Sampling for July Through
                           Management, Inc.               September 2012


3     460908     7/3/13    Environmental      U.S. EPA    Report - Final Quarterly               139
                           Quality                        Inspection and Sampling for
                           Management, Inc.               October Through December 2012


4     907163     8/1/13    Environmental      U.S. EPA    Report - Quarterly Inspection and      157
                           Quality                        Sampling for January Through
                           Management, Inc.               March 2013


5     909029     10/1/13   CH2M Hill          U.S. EPA    Report - Final Focused Feasibility      74
                                                          Study for Vaulted Manholes


6     474892     5/16/14   U.S. EPA           File        Interim Record of Decision              73
                                                          (ROD) (Signed)


7     508881     9/20/16   U.S. EPA           File        Explanation of Significant              18
                                                          Differences (ESD) (Signed) at the
                                                          Ten Mile Drain Superfund Site


8     941016     5/10/18   LEXITAS            File        Report of Proceeding - U.S. EPA         4
                                                          Proposes Cleanup Plan - Public
                                                          Meeting [Redacted]
9    941017   5/10/18   LEXITAS            File        Report of Proceeding - U.S. EPA     8
                                                       Proposes Cleanup Plan - Public
                                                       Meeting


10   941018   5/10/18   U.S. EPA           Residents   Public Comments on Proposed         1
                                                       Cleanup Plan for Investigation
                                                       Areas 1 and 2 of the Ten Mile-
                                                       Drain Site


11   941427   5/10/18   U.S. EPA           Residents   Public Comments on Proposed         2
                                                       Cleanup Plan for Investigation
                                                       Areas 1 and 2 of the Ten Mile-
                                                       Drain Site


12   941019   5/24/18   Leon, H.,          Residents   Email Regarding: Ten-Mile Drain     1
                        U.S. EPA                       Site, St. Clair Shores , MI

13   941020   5/24/18   Leon, H.,          Residents   Email Regarding: Ten-Mile Drain     2
                        U.S. EPA                       Site, St. Clair Shores , MI

14   943581   9/1/18    U.S. EPA           File        Record of Decision (ROD)           90
                                                       (Signed)


15   982781   1/13/20   Environmental      U.S. EPA    Report - Final Annual Inspection   36
                        Quality                        & Sampling January 2016
                        Management, Inc.               Through December 2016


16   982782   2/3/20    Environmental      U.S. EPA    Report - Final Annual Inspection   41
                        Quality                        & Sampling January 2017
                        Management, Inc.               Through December 2017


17   982824   3/25/20   Environmental      U.S. EPA    Report - Final Annual Inspection   37
                        Quality                        & Sampling January 2018
                        Management, Inc.               Through December 2018


18   982825   3/31/20   Environmental      U.S. EPA    Report - Final Annual Inspection   26
                        Quality                        & Sampling January 2019
                        Management, Inc.               Through December 2019


19   982773   4/1/20    CH2M Hill          U.S. EPA    Report - Final Site Wide           185
                                                       Feasibility Study
20   982826   9/1/21    Environmental      U.S. EPA   Report - Final Annual Inspection   27
                        Quality                       & Sampling January 2020
                        Management, Inc.              Through December 2020


21   971976   1/30/22   Environmental      U.S. EPA   Ten-Mile Drain - January 2022       3
                        Quality                       Sampling & Results Summary
                        Management, Inc.              (With Figure 3 Attached)


22   982777   2/3/22    Environmental      U.S. EPA   Report - Draft Annual Inspection   24
                        Quality                       & Sampling January 2021
                        Management, Inc.              Through December 2021


23   982776   4/6/23    Environmental      U.S. EPA   Report - Draft Annual Inspection   38
                        Quality                       & Sampling January 2022
                        Management, Inc.              Through December 2022


24   ******   ******    ******             ******     Record of Decision (ROD)           ****
                                                      (Pending)
                      U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
                                  REMEDIAL ACTION

                                ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD
                                       FOR THE
                            TEN-MILE DRAIN SITE
                ST CLAIR SHORES, MACOMB COUNTY, MICHIGAN

                                         UPDATE 5
                                      OCTOBER 18, 2023
                                       SEMS ID: 983551

NO.   SEMS ID    DATE      AUTHOR          RECIPIENT        TITLE/DESCRIPTION                  PAGES

1     983641     6/1/23    U.S. EPA        General Public   U.S. EPA - Final Proposed Plan        62
                                                            for the Ten Mile Drain Superfund
                                                            Site

2     983667     6/1/23    U.S. EPA        General Public   Fact Sheet Re: EPA Proposal of        8
                                                            PCB Cleanup for Ten-Mile Drain
                                                            System

3     985562     6/12/23   U.S. EPA        General Public   Press Release: EPA Seeks Public       3
                                                            Comment on Proposed Cleanup
                                                            Plan for the Ten Mile Drain
                                                            Superfund Site

4     985418     6/21/23   U.S. EPA        General Public   St. Clair Shores Sentinel - EPA       1
                                                            Proposes Cleanup Plan Details to
                                                            be Presented at Open House and
                                                            Public Meeting

5     983837     6/22/23   U.S. EPA        General Public   U.S. EPA - Presentation of            66
                                                            Proposed Cleanup Alternatives
                                                            for the Ten Mile Drain Storm
                                                            Sewer System

6     985467     7/10/23   ALS             U.S. EPA         Report - Sampling Analysis            32
                           Environmental                    W/CDC & Figures Work Order #
                                                            23061031

7     985411     7/11/23   U.S. EPA        General Public   Ten Mile Drain Storm Sewer            20
                                                            Proposed Plan: Public Comments
                                                            (Redacted)
APPENDIX B
                                        S TATE OF M ICHIGAN
                                        DEPARTMENT OF
                              ENVIRONMENT, GREAT LAKES, AND ENERGY
                                                       L ANSING
GRETCHEN WHITMER                                                                                             PHILLIP D. ROOS
    GOVERNOR                                                                                                     DIRECTOR




                                                        December 18, 2023


       VIA EMAIL

       Douglas E. Ballotti, Director
       Superfund and Emergency Management Division
       United States Environmental Protection Agency
       Region 5
       77 West Jackson Boulevard (S-6J)
       Chicago, Illinois 60604-3507

       Dear Douglas E. Ballotti:

       SUBJECT:       Concurrence with the Selected Remedy in the Record of Decision (ROD)
                      for the Ten Mile Drain (TMD) Superfund Site; Saint Clair Shores, Michigan

       The Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) has
       received and reviewed the ROD for the TMD Superfund Site located in Saint Clair
       Shores, Michigan. The objective of the ROD is to address polychlorinated biphenyl
       (PCB) impacted source material in the TMD storm sewer system (TMD System) pipe,
       vaulted manholes, and surrounding backfill materials at the TMD Superfund Site. The
       United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) has requested concurrence
       from the State of Michigan with this ROD.

       EGLE formally concurs with the remedy selected by the USEPA, which proposes the
       excavation and replacement of six vaulted manholes, TMD System pipe, and
       surrounding stone bedding and backfill material impacted by PCB contamination. The
       purpose of this ROD is to address the remaining source contamination in the TMD
       System, preventing further migration of PCB contaminants into the Lange and Revere
       Street canals. Additionally, the remedial action will include a pre-design study to
       evaluate remedial options for the Lakeland Street drain, cleaning targeted areas of the
       TMD System with low level residual PCBs, and establishing pre- and post-monitoring
       plans to assess the effectiveness of the selected remedy.

       The response action selected in this ROD is necessary to mitigate the migration of
       contaminants and prevent further environmental degradation from releases of
       hazardous substances into the environment.




               CONSTITUTION HALL • 525 WEST ALLEGAN STREET • P.O. BOX 30473 • LANSING, MICHIGAN 48909-7973
                                             Michigan.gov/EGLE • 800-662-9278
Douglas E. Ballotti                        2                        December 18, 2023


If you need further information, please contact Mike Neller, Director, Remediation and
Redevelopment Division, at 517-512-5859; NellerM@Michigan.gov; or EGLE,
P.O. Box 30426, Lansing, Michigan 48909-7926; or you may contact me.

                                        Sincerely,



                                        Phillip D. Roos
                                        Director
                                        517-284-6700

cc: Colleen Moynihan, USEPA, Region 5
    Aaron B. Keatley, Chief Deputy Director, EGLE
    Mike Neller, EGLE
    Kalan Briggs, EGLE
    Robert Franks, EGLE
    Mark Reimann, EGLE
APPENDIX C
                                                                      Table A
                                                         Cancer Toxicity Data Summary
                                                     Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study
                                                     Ten Mile Drain, St. Clair Shores, Michigan


Pathway: Ingestion, Dermal

                                                                                         Weight of
           Chemical of            Oral Cancer Dermal Cancer        Slope Factor
                                                                                      Evidence/Cancer              Source                  Date (MM/DD/YYYY)
            Concern               Slope Factor Slope Factor(1)        Units
                                                                                    Guideline Description
                                                                               -1
Non-Dioxin Like PCBs (2)             2.0E+00        2.0E+00        (mg/kg-day)               B2                   IRIS (RSL)                    05/12/2013
                                                                               -1
PCB TEQ (Dioxin-Like PCBs) (3)       1.3E+05        1.3E+05        (mg/kg-day)               NA                 Cal EPA (RSL)                   05/12/2013
                                                                               -1
Total PCBs (4)                       2.0E+05        2.0E+05        (mg/kg-day)               B2                   IRIS (RSL)                    05/12/2013

Pathway: Inhalation

                                                                    Inhalation                                   Weight of
           Chemical of
                                    Unit Risk         Units        Cancer Slope            Units              Evidence/Cancer          Source        Date (MM/DD/YYYY)
            Concern
                                                                      Factor                                Guideline Description
                                                          3 -1
Total PCBs (4)                       5.7E-04        (µg/m )              --                  --                      B2             IRIS (RSL) (5)      05/12/2013

NA = not applicable
EPA = United States Environmental Protection Agency
IRIS = Integrated Risk Information System
Cal EPA = California Environmental Protection Agency
mg/kg-day = milligram per kilogram-day
µg/m3 = microgram per cubic meter
PCB = polychlorinated biphenyl
TEQ = dioxin toxicity equivalence
-- = No information available
B2 = Probable human carcinogen agent for which there is sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in animals but inadequate or a lack of evidence in humans
(1) Source: Risk Assessment Guidance for Superfund. Volume 1: Human Health Evaluation Manual (Part E, Supplemental Guidance for Dermal Risk Assessment). Section
4.2 and Exhibit 4-1. USEPA recommends that the oral RfD should not be adjusted to estimate the absorbed dose for compounds when the absorption efficiency is greater
than 50%. Constituents that do not have oral absorption efficiencies reported on this table were assumed to have an oral absorption efficiency of >50%.
(2) Non-dioxin-like PCBs = Sum of all PCB congener concentrations - Sum of dioxin-like-PCB congener concentrations.
(3) PCB TEQ = 2,3,7,8 TCDD toxic equivalent concentration; calculated for detected dioxin-like PCB congeners only and is sum of the products (concentration multiplied by
toxic equivalency factor per congener).
(4) Total PCBs = Sum of individual Aroclor concentrations.
(5) RSL = As cited in EPA Regional Screening Level Table
                                                                                                           Table B
                                                                                             Non-Cancer Toxicity Data Summary
                                                                                          Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study
                                                                                          Ten Mile Drain, St. Clair Shores, Michigan


Pathway: Ingestion, Dermal
                                                                                                                                                                Combined                             Dates of RfD:Target
          Chemical of               Chronic/          Oral RfD          Oral RfD                                                                                                     Sources of
                                                                                          Dermal RfD          Dermal RfD Units         Primary Target Organ     Uncertainty                                Organ
           Concern                 Subchronic          Value             Units                                                                                                    RfD:Target Organ
                                                                                                                                                              Modifying Factors                       (MM/DD/YYYY)
Non-Dioxin Like PCBs (1)             Chronic          2.00E-05         mg/kg-day            2.0E-05              mg/kg-day               Fingernails, Eyes          300                 IRIS            07/23/2014
PCB TEQ (Dioxin-Like PCBs) (2)       Chronic          7.00E-10         mg/kg-day            7.0E-10              mg/kg-day             Testes, Development           30                 IRIS            07/23/2014
Total PCBs (3)                       Chronic          2.00E-05         mg/kg-day            2.0E-05              mg/kg-day               Fingernails, Eyes          300                 IRIS            07/23/2014

Pathway: Inhalation
                                                                                                                                                                Combined             Sources of
          Chemical of               Chronic/                           Inhalation          Inhalation            Inhalation
                                                   Inhalation RfC                                                                      Primary Target Organ     Uncertainty        RfC:RfD:Target    Dates (MM/DD/YYYY)
           Concern                 Subchronic                           RfC Units             RfD                 RfD Units
                                                                                                                                                              Modifying Factors        Organ
Total PCBs (3)                       Chronic             NA               NA                  NA                     NA                        NA                    NA                  NA                  NA

NA = not applicable
IRIS = Integrated Risk Information System
mg/kg-day = milligram per kilogram-day
RfC = reference concentration
RfD = reference dose
PCB = polychlorinated biphenyl
TEQ = dioxin toxicity equivalence
(1) Non-dioxin-like PCBs = Sum of all PCB congener concentrations - Sum of dioxin-like-PCB congener concentrations.
(2) PCB TEQ = 2,3,7,8 TCDD toxic equivalent concentration; calculated for detected dioxin-like PCB congeners only and is sum of the products (concentration multiplied by toxic
equivalency factor per congener).
(3) Total PCBs = Sum of individual Aroclor concentrations.
                                                                             Table C
                                                          Risk Characterization Summary - Carcinogens
                                                             Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study
                                                            Ten Mile Drain, St. Clair Shores, Michigan

   Scenario Timeframe:                          Current
   Receptor Population:                         Resident
   Receptor Age:                                Aggregate Adult/Child
                                                                                                                 Carcinogenic Risk
      Medium            Exposure Medium           Exposure Point       Chemical of Concern                                                     Exposure
                                                                                             Ingestion      Inhalation         Dermal
                                                                                                                                              Routes Total
                                                   Surface Soil
                       Surface Soil (0-2 ft)
        Soil                                      (Parkway) and            Total PCBs           NA             NA                NA                NA
                      and Total Soil (0-3 ft)
                                                 Total Soil (Yard)

        Soil            Total Soil (0-7 ft)     Martin Drain Yard          Total PCBs          NA              NA                NA               NA
   Scenario Timeframe:                          Current/Future
   Receptor Population:                         Utility Worker
   Receptor Age:                                Adult
                                                                                                                 Carcinogenic Risk
      Medium            Exposure Medium           Exposure Point       Chemical of Concern                                                     Exposure
                                                                                             Ingestion      Inhalation         Dermal
                                                                                                                                              Routes Total
                                                  Utility Corridor
        Soil            Total Soil (0-10 ft)      along Bon Brae           Total PCBs          NA              NA                NA                NA
                                                       Street
                                                  Utility Corridor
        Soil            Total Soil (0-10 ft)      along Lakeland           Total PCBs          NA              NA                NA               NA
                                                       Street

                                                Martin Drain Utility
        Soil            Total Soil (0-10 ft)    Corridor along Bon         Total PCBs          NA              NA                NA               NA
                                                   Brae Street
   Scenario Timeframe:                          Current/Future
   Receptor Population:                         Commercial Worker
   Receptor Age:                                Adult
                                                                                                                 Carcinogenic Risk
      Medium            Exposure Medium           Exposure Point       Chemical of Concern                                                     Exposure
                                                                                             Ingestion      Inhalation         Dermal
                                                                                                                                              Routes Total
                                                    Commercial
                                                 property parking
        Soil            Total Soil (0-10 ft)    lot at the corner of       Total PCBs           NA             NA                NA                NA
                                                Harper Avenue and
                                                  Lakeland Street
ft = feet
NA = not applicable; carcinogenic risk estimates are within the target risk range (1x10-6 to 1x10-4). PCBs were identified as chemicals of concern based on
non-cancer risk estimates.
PCB = polychlorinated biphenyl
                                                                             Table D
                                                       Risk Characterization Summary - Non-Carcinogens
                                                             Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study
                                                            Ten Mile Drain, St. Clair Shores, Michigan

   Scenario Timeframe:                    Current
   Receptor Population:                   Resident
   Receptor Age:                          Aggregate Adult/Child

                                                               Chemical of     Primary Target               Non-carcinogenic Hazard Quotient
   Medium         Exposure Medium         Exposure Point                                                                                   Exposure
                                                                Concern            Organ          Ingestion    Inhalation     Dermal
                                                                                                                                         Routes Total
                                             Surface Soil
                 Surface Soil (0-2 ft)
      Soil                                  (Parkway) and      Total PCBs     Fingernails, Eyes    2.6E+00        NA         6.7E-01         3E+00
                and Total Soil (0-3 ft)
                                           Total Soil (Yard)
      Soil         Total Soil (0-7 ft)    Martin Drain Yard    Total PCBs     Fingernails, Eyes    2.6E+00        NA         6.7E-01         3E+00
   Scenario Timeframe:                    Current/Future
   Receptor Population:                   Utility Worker
   Receptor Age:                          Adult

                                                               Chemical of     Primary Target               Non-carcinogenic Hazard Quotient
   Medium         Exposure Medium          Exposure Point                                                                                  Exposure
                                                                Concern            Organ          Ingestion    Inhalation     Dermal
                                                                                                                                         Routes Total
                                           Utility Corridor
      Soil        Total Soil (0-10 ft)     along Bon Brae   Total PCBs        Fingernails, Eyes     1E+01         NA          4E+00          1E+01
                                                Street
                                           Utility Corridor
      Soil        Total Soil (0-10 ft)     along Lakeland   Total PCBs        Fingernails, Eyes     3E+00         NA          1E+00          4E+00
                                                Street
                                            Martin Drain
                                           Utility Corridor
      Soil        Total Soil (0-10 ft)                      Total PCBs        Fingernails, Eyes     2E+01         NA          1E+01          3E+01
                                           along Bon Brae
                                                Street
   Scenario Timeframe:                    Current/Future
   Receptor Population:                   Commercial Worker
   Receptor Age:                          Adult

                                                               Chemical of     Primary Target               Non-carcinogenic Hazard Quotient
   Medium         Exposure Medium          Exposure Point                                                                                  Exposure
                                                                Concern            Organ          Ingestion    Inhalation     Dermal
                                                                                                                                         Routes Total
                                             Commercial
                                          property parking
                                                                                                      not                       not
                                           lot at the corner                                                                             not calculated
      Soil        Total Soil (0-10 ft)                         Total PCBs     Fingernails, Eyes   calculated      NA        calculated
                                          of Harper Avenue                                                                                     (1)
                                                                                                      (1)                       (1)
                                             and Lakeland
                                                 Street


ft = feet
MDEQ = Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
NA = not applicable
PCB = polychlorinated biphenyl
(1) PCB concentrations beneath the parking lot are orders of magnitude higher than MDEQ's direct contact criteria for commercial properties and the risk
exceeds an HI of 1.
                                                                                                                                                      Potential Human Receptors


                                                                                                                         Current                              Current/Future                              Future
                      Primary                            Secondary                                                                            Recreational      Recreational
                                         Secondary                                               Exposure         Residential    Commercial                                                       Residential      Commercial
Primary Source        Release                             Release          Exposure Media                                                        Users            Angler        Utility Worker
                                          Source                                                  Route                            Worker                                                                            Worker
                     Mechanism                           Mechanism                                               Adult   Child                Adult   Child    Adult    Child                    Adult   Child


                                                                                                  Ingestion       X        X         X
                                          Surface                            Surface Soil
                                                                                               Dermal Contact     X        X         X
                                           Soil                            (0 to 2 feet bgs)
                                                                                                 Inhalation       X        X         X

                                                            Surface
                                                           Runoff /
                                                          Infiltration


  Auto repair
   facility at        Releases/                                                                  Ingestion                                                                           X
 26210 Harper           spills                                              Ten Mile Drain     Dermal Contact                                                                        X
    Avenue                                                                                       Inhalation                                                                          X



                                                                                Release




                                                                                                  Ingestion                                    X       X
                                                                           Canal Surface
                                                                                               Dermal Contact                                  X       X
                                                                           Water/Sediment
                                                                                                Fish Ingestion                                                   X       X



                                                                                                  Ingestion                                                                           X           X        X           X
                                                                              Total Soil
                                            Total Soil                                         Dermal Contact                                                                         X           X        X           X
                                                                          (0 to 10 feet bgs)
                                                                                                 Inhalation                                                                           X           X        X           X




       Legend                                                                                                                                                                    Figure 1
       X – Potentially complete exposure pathways identified                                                                                          Human Health Conceptual Site Model
       1 – Sediment exposure is considered insignificant and is not evaluated
                                                                                                                                                        Ten Mile Drain, St. Clair Shores, Michigan
