United States    Hiroki Komatsu
Department of
                 Breeding Technology Group,
Agriculture
                 Global Integrated Agri-Tech R&D Department,
Marketing and    Global Agricultural Research & Business Center, KAGOME Co., LTD.
Regulatory
Programs
                 Re: Confirmation of the regulatory status of gene edited tomato for enhanced abiotic
Washington, DC   stress tolerance
20250
                 Dear Hiroki Komatsu:

                 Thank you for your letter received June 22, 2026 (26-173-01air), inquiring whether the
                 tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) product described in your letter is a regulated article
                 under 7 CFR part 340. Your letter describes genome edited tomato developed using
                 CRISPR-Cas, resulting in the desired enhanced abiotic stress tolerance.

                 The Plant Protection Act of 2000 (PPA) provides USDA with broad authority to
                 protect U.S. agriculture, the environment, and the economy by, among other things,
                 regulating the introduction of plants and articles to prevent the dissemination or
                 establishment of a plant pest within the United States. As such, USDA, through the
                 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, regulates the “Introduction of Organisms
                 and Products Altered or Produced Through Genetic Engineering Which are Plant Pests
                 or Which There is Reason to Believe Are Plant Pests,” as described in 7 CFR part 340.
                 These regulations only apply to organisms that USDA deems regulated articles under §
                 340.1.

                 In your letter, you describe how you used particle bombardment to transiently
                 introduce non-integrating plasmids with gene-editing elements into tomato to introduce
                 edits in target genes, claimed as confidential business information (CBI), through DNA
                 repair without the presence of an externally provided DNA template. You used
                 polymerase chain reaction (PCR), T7 Endonuclease I cleavage assay, and Sanger
                 sequencing to confirm modifications to the target genes. You subsequently used
                 conventional breeding methods and PCR to confirm the absence of unintended
                 insertion of plasmid sequences.

                 Based on the representations you made in your letter, including your description of the
                 results of your confirmation methods, your modified tomato plants are not themselves
                 plant pests and no plant pest sequences were integrated into the genome of tomato.
                 Consistent with previous responses to similar letters of inquiry, USDA does not
                 consider your modified tomato plants to be regulated pursuant to 7 CFR part 340.

                 Although your modified tomato is not regulated under 7 CFR part 340, it may be
                 subject to other USDA regulations or other regulatory authorities. For example,
                 importation of your plant or its seeds may be subject to Plant Protection and
                 Quarantine (PPQ) permit and/or quarantine requirements. For further information, you
                 may contact the PPQ general number for such inquiries at (877) 770-5990. To inquire
                 about the regulatory status of your plant with the Environmental Protection Agency,

                 USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer, and lender.
                                                                 KAGOME Co., LTD.
                                                                           Page 2

 please contact Alan Reynolds at reynolds.alan@epa.gov or (703) 605-0515. To inquire
 about the regulatory status of your plant with the Food and Drug Administration
 (FDA), please contact FDA at PlantBiotech@fda.hhs.gov.

 Should you become aware at any time of any issues that may affect USDA’s
 conclusion regarding this inquiry, you should immediately notify us in writing of the
 nature of the issue.

 Sincerely,



  DONNA LALLI Digitally signed by DONNA LALLI
              Date: 2026.08.14 09:05:45 -04'00'


 Donna A. Lalli, Ph.D.
 APHIS Deputy Administrator
 Biotechnology Regulatory Services
 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
 U.S. Department of Agriculture




USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer, and lender.
