                                                -
                                                USDA
                                 U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                     Food Safety and Inspection Service
                                       1400 Independence Avenue, SW
                                           Washington, DC 20250



 March 23, 2026                                           Electronically Submitted on March 23, 2026



 Western Valley Meat Company, Est. M354
 10431 8 3/4 Ave
 Hanford, CA 93230
~       centralvalleymeat.com
~     83-9624

Attention: Brian Coelho, President/CEO

 NOTICE OF INTENDED ENFORCEMENT

This letter serves as official notification by the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) of the
Agency's intent to withhold the marks of inspection and suspend inspection services for the
Slaughter Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) process at Western Valley Meat
Company (Western), M354, located at 3115 S. Fig Ave Fresno, CA 93706.

The decision to institute this enforcement this action is in accordance with Title 9 of the Code
Federal Regulations (CFR) Rules of Practice 500.3(b), based on the determination that Western
handled or slaughtered livestock inhumanely, in violation of the Federal Meat Inspection Act
(FMIA) (21 U.S.C. 601 et-seq.), the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act (HMSA) (7 U.S.C. 1901
et seq.), and the relevant regulatory requirements (9 CFR Part 313).

 This letter provides you with information on the Agency 1 s authority, the facts suppo1i ing FSIS'
 intended enforcement action, and information on how you can respond.

 Background/Authority

FSIS is the agency in the U.S. Department of Agriculture responsible for protecting the public's
health by ensuring the nation's supply of meat, poultry, and processed egg products for sale and
distribution in commerce is safe, unadulterated, wholesome, and correctly labeled and packaged.
FSIS administers and enforces, among other laws, the FMIA (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), HMSA (7
U.S.C. 1901 et seq.), and the statutes' implementing regulations. FSIS has prescribed rules and
regulations required for establishments producing meat/meat food products, including
requirements pertaining to humane handling and slaughtering of livestock (9 CFR Part 313) and
other matters. FSIS has also developed the Rules of Practice regarding enforcement (9 CFR Part
500). The Rules of Practice describe the types of enforcement action that FSIS may take and
include procedures for taking a withholding action and/or suspension, with or without prior
notification, and for filing a complaint to withdraw a Federal Grant of Inspection.


                         USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer, and lender.
                                                                                        Page l of 4
Brian Coelho, President/CEO                                      Notice of Intended Enforcement
Western Valley Meat Company, Est. M354                                           March 23, 2026

Should FSIS personnel document serious or repetitive food safety, sanitation, humane handling,
slaughter, or other violations, FSIS may take enforcement action under 9 CFR Part 500.

Links to the Acts and the Rules of Practice are enclosed for your info1mation and review.

FM1A: https://www.fsis.usda.gov/policy/food-safety-acts/federal-meat-inspection-act
HMSA: https://www.fsis.usda.gov/policy/food-safety-acts/humane-methods-s laughter-act
FSIS Rules of Practice: bttps://www.ecfr.gov/current/tit1e-9/chapter-1II/subchapter-E/part-500

Findings/Basis for Action

On March 23, 2026, the FSIS Inspectjon Program Personnel (IPP) observed Western Valley
Meat's failure to conduct slaughter of livestock in accordance with regulatory requirements
outlined in Title 9 CFR 313.l 5(a)(l ). At approximately 1304 hours, while verifying HATS
Category VIII - Stunning Effectiveness in the suspect pen area, the Supervisory Public Health
Vetetinarian (SPHV) observed an establishment employee attempt to stun a dairy cow that was
condemned at ante-mortem inspection. After the first stunning attempt using a handheld captive
bolt device, the animal remained standing and continued to exhibit eye-tracking movements. The
SPHV observed a small hole in the forehead, where the captive bolt penetrated the skin and
bone. The same employee immediately applied a second stunning attempt using the same
handheld captive bolt device, but the cow remained standing and continued to exhibit eye-
tracking movements. In addition, blood began flowing freely from both nostrils. A different
establishment employee then arrived and applied a third stunning attempt using the same
handheld captive bolt device. This third attempt successfully rendered the animal unconscious
and it collapsed onto the floor.

In accordance with Title 9 CFR 313.50(c), IPP took regulatory control action by applying U.S.
Rejected Tag # B-46225070 to the knock box. IPP notifiedl(b1/6l               I
                                                                       and fbH6)                  I,
Establishment Supervisors, of the egregious humane handling noncompliance, specifically
multiple ineffective stun attempts due to the establishment's failme to immediately apply
corrective actions. JPP notified i<b)(6l                   l
                                                        Food Safety and Qual ity Assurance
Manager, of the regulatory control action and discussed the humane handling concerns.

This is an egregious act of inhumane handling of animals in connection with slaughter and is in
violation of Title 9 CFR 313. l 5(a)(l), which states, "The captive bolt stunners shall be applied
to the livestock in accordance with this section so as to produce immediate unconsciousness in
the animals before they are shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast, or cut. The animals shall be stunned
in such a manner that they will be rendered unconscious with a minimum ofexcitement and
discomfort." This constitutes failure to adhere to the regulatory requirements of the humane
handling and slaughter of livestock, as required by the Federal Meat Inspection Act, 21 U.S.C.
603(b), the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

Conclusion

On September 9, 2004, FSIS published "Humane Handling and Slaughter Requirements and the
Merits of a Systematic Approach to Meet Such Requirements" in the Federal Register (69 FR

                        USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer, and lender.
                                                                                        Page 2 of 4
Brian Coelho, President/CEO                                       Notice of Intended Enforcement
Western Valley Meat Company, Est. M354                                            March 23, 2026

 54625). Subsequently, on October 23, 2013, FSIS issued guidance, titled "FSJS Compliance Guide
for a Systematic Approach to the Humane Handling of Livestock," to promote a systematic
approach to achieve compliance with the FSIS requirements for the humane handling and slaughter
of livestock. If an establishment maintains a robust humane handling program, FSIS can exercise
regulatory discretion when an inhumane handling or slaughter incident is observed.

Based on the :findings described above, Western handled or slaughtered livestock inhumanely, in
violation of the FMIA 21 U.S.C. 603(b), HMSA 7 U.S.C. 1901 - 1902, and 9 CFR 313.15(a)(l).
Therefore, FSIS has decided to issue this Notice oflntended Enforcement in lieu of an immediate
suspension based on the details of the incident and Western's prior implementation of a robust
systematic approach to humane handling.

How to Respond to this Letter

Please provide this office with a written response to this letter within three (3) business davs from
the date of your receipt of this letter, no later than close of business on March 26, 2026. FSIS will
determine further action, if any, based on your response. Your written response is expected to
include:

    •   An evaluation and identification of the nature and cause of the incident.
    •   A description of the specific actions taken to eliminate the cause of the incident and
        prevent future recurrences.
    •   Any corrective actions, preventative measmes, and monitoring activities to ensure
        continued compliance.
    •   Copies of supporting documentation and records maintained and/or associated with the
        proposed corrective actions and preventative measures.

You may submit your response by fax to (844) 622-0081, or by electronic mail
(AlamedaDistrictOffice@usda.gov).

You are reminded that, as an operator of a federally inspected establishment, you are expected to
comply with FSIS regulations and to take appropriate corrective actions to prevent the inhumane
handling and slaughtering of livestock. Please be advised that failure to respond adequately to
this letter may resul