Notice of Ofwat’s decision to accept section 19 undertakings from Anglian Water Services Limited

This document constitutes a notice under section 19(3) of the Water Industry Act 1991. It sets out our decision to accept enforceable undertakings from Anglian Water Services Limited in order to secure its compliance with Regulation 4 of the Urban Waste Water Treatment (England and Wales) Regulations 1994, section 94 of the Water Industry Act 1991 and Condition P12 of its Licence. The undertakings will also provide redress for contravening these obligations.

This notice describes the failings of Anglian Water Services Limited (Anglian Water), how these have occurred and sets out the undertakings that we have accepted under section 19(3) of the Water Industry Act 1991. The failings relate to the management, operation, maintenance and performance of its wastewater treatment works (WWTW) and the collecting systems that are used to supply them.

Having reviewed this information, we have concluded that this evidence demonstrates that Anglian Water has failed to meet the following duties and obligations: to ensure its WWTW perform sufficiently in terms of design, construction, operation and maintenance so that spills only occur in exceptional or unforeseeable circumstances under Regulation 4(4) of the Urban Waste Water Treatment (England and Wales) Regulations 1994 (UWWTR); to provide effectual drainage of its local area and to effectually deal with the contents of its sewers, under section 94 of the Water Industry Act 1991 (WIA91); and to ensure as a company that it is run efficiently and effectively in compliance with its statutory duties, under Condition P12 of its instrument of appointment (Licence).

Anglian Water’s failure to operate and manage its WWTW and network appropriately has meant that it has not minimised the adverse effects the disposal of wastewater can have on the environment. This failure has meant that there have been unpermitted and premature spills of wastewater from its WWTW and network. Ofwat considers that, absent the accepted undertakings, the contraventions that have taken place are sufficiently serious to warrant the imposition of a significant penalty.

We welcome the fact that Anglian Water has acknowledged its failings and that it submitted formal undertakings under section 19 WIA91 that will see it commit to investing an additional £62.8 million over the 2025-30 period to improve the quality of rivers in its region. This will be entirely funded by the company and its shareholders rather than customers.

We consulted on our proposal to accept the undertakings put forward by Anglian Water in lieu of us imposing an enforcement order and financial penalty on the company. Following our consideration of the consultation responses received, we are satisfied that it is appropriate in this case to accept these enforceable undertakings instead of issuing an enforcement order and financial penalty. The value of redress secured (£62.8 million) is higher than the financial penalty we might otherwise impose on the company (£57.1 million).

This document constitutes a notice issued by The Water Services Regulation Authority (Ofwat) under section 19(3) WIA91 setting out our decision to accept enforceable undertakings provided by Anglian Water, pursuant to section 19(1)(b) WIA91. The Undertakings are accepted in lieu of the enforcement order and financial penalty Ofwat would otherwise impose on the company following our investigation.
