Notice of Ofwat's decision to accept section 19 undertakings from Wessex Water Services Limited

This document constitutes a notice under section 19(3) of the Water Industry Act 1991. It sets out our decision to accept enforceable undertakings from Wessex Water Services Limited in order to secure its compliance with Regulation 4 of the Urban Waste Water Treatment (England and Wales) Regulations 1994, section 94 of the Water Industry Act 1991 and Condition P12 of its Licence. The undertakings will also provide redress for contravening these obligations.

This document constitutes a notice issued by the Water Services Regulation Authority (Ofwat) under section 19(3) WIA91 setting out our decision to accept enforceable undertakings from Wessex Water pursuant to section 19(1)(b) WIA91. The Undertakings are accepted in lieu of the enforcement order and financial penalty that Ofwat would otherwise impose on the company following our investigation.

In providing the Undertakings, Wessex Water accepts that the company has contravened its statutory duties and the obligations of its Licence. In implementing the Undertakings, we are satisfied that Wessex Water will be taking the steps we consider at this time to be appropriate and necessary to secure its future compliance with the above obligations. Wessex Water will also provide redress valued at £11 million, which it will invest in a series of activities to reduce the amount of rainwater entering its sewer network and reducing the number of spills from storm overflows. This will be funded by the company and/or its shareholders, not by customers. The value of this redress is greater than the amount of the financial penalty Ofwat would otherwise be minded to impose in this case.

The document summarises the evidence that we have gathered and sets out our findings in relation to the issues under investigation, including why we believe that Wessex Water has contravened its statutory duties and the obligations of its Licence. It summarises our final decision to accept undertakings instead of imposing an enforcement order and financial penalty on the company.

Ofwat opened this enforcement case as part of its sector-wide investigation into wastewater companies in England and Wales. The Water Industry Act 1991 requires Ofwat to issue an enforcement order where it is satisfied that a company is contravening a relevant condition or statutory requirement, unless section 19 exceptions apply. Section 19 permits Ofwat to accept enforceable undertakings in lieu of an enforcement order and, where appropriate, in lieu of a financial penalty under section 22A WIA91.

We published a consultation on our proposal to accept the undertakings. Having considered the responses, we remain satisfied that the undertakings will secure compliance and that accepting them is the better outcome for customers and the environment. The undertakings are enforceable by Ofwat under section 18 of the Water Industry Act 1991 and we will monitor Wessex Water’s delivery of them.
